Krish Naik: Hello, everyone. We will just start the session in another 10 minutes. Thank you.
Krish Naik: So I hope, guys, you can see me, clearly. My voice is audible. We'll just start the session in another 8 to 9 minutes. I'm just waiting for 8PM and many people to join, okay? Still, many people are joining. Thank you.
Krish Naik: So before I go ahead, guys, I hope everybody got the mail, regarding the links. I hope if you're not got, also, if you missed the mail, also go ahead and check out the workshop section, okay?
Krish Naik: So there, the link may have got activated.
Krish Naik: Please plan break of 2 to 3 minutes for every 1 hour. No, we will just have one break in between,
Krish Naik: So, we will be announcing that, we'll be giving you a proper 15 minutes break, don't worry. Everybody needs to rest.
Krish Naik: Yep.
Krish Naik: But I hope everybody got the email.
Krish Naik: Just check in your spam folder, okay?
Krish Naik: You should be able to get a mail regarding the class, link, everything, 2 hours before the class. Yeah, many people are saying, okay, yes.
Krish Naik: Okay, let's wait for another 6 minutes, and then we'll start. Thank you a little bit. Let's wait for more people to join.
Krish Naik: Till then, in the community, please tell your friends to join the session. That would be a request. Otherwise, we'll start sharp at 8pm, okay?
Krish Naik: Today, we are going to do the installation, and we will also go about basic understanding about our introduction to generative AI.
Krish Naik: Then from the next session, we are going to discuss about transformers and all, okay?
Krish Naik: Guys, I hope everybody was able to see in the induction session, basically the induction session recordings, right?
Krish Naik: If you go to the courses section, there is your course dashboard. I've already shown you each and everything.
Krish Naik: And, you know, after the induction session usually gets over, within 24 hours, we'll be uploading all the recording videos and all, right? So going forward, anything will be happening like that. Good evening, please share induction session recording. Please see in the courses section, guys.
Krish Naik: So, from the course, you should be able to see it, okay?
Krish Naik: Okay, how many of you are from US? Can you just raise your hand, or just write a message in the chat, please?
Krish Naik: Because, you know, we are planning something, you know? So, I would just require, like, how many people are from US, just raise your hand.
Krish Naik: From Dallas, Texas, okay.
Krish Naik: Ramesh Kumar.
Krish Naik: From Atlanta.
Krish Naik: B.
Krish Naik: Guys, you'll not be able to unmute yourself, so we will allow you, okay? I'm in U.S. Dallas, Texas.
Krish Naik: Canada, Toronto, yeah, US, Canada, Okay, there are many people. Perfect.
Krish Naik: So guys, there's a…
Krish Naik: bit of things that we are planning for US people, also, because of the time difference.
Krish Naik: But let's see, we are looking out, you know, in such a way that in your timing, in your time zone also, right, we will be able to take that session. So we are preparing some mentors, you know, and this is some good news. But we really need to understand if we really want to do this, you know, we need some…
Krish Naik: Some understanding from your side also, like, what issues you may be facing, okay?
Krish Naik: So, yeah, that would be great if you can manage in USA timings. Yes, we are trying to do that. See, next year, like, after this March financial year, right, we are making sure that we cater CST time zone, EST time zone, PT time zone, different, different time zones, so that it becomes easy
Krish Naik: For everyone out there, okay?
Krish Naik: So guys, yes, we have Monal with us. Today, Sunny was a bit stuck in something, so I requested Monal to probably come and do the installation. For people who don't know Monol, Monal, would you like to give a brief introduction about it?
Monal S: Yes, yes.
Monal S: Hello cursor. Hey, everyone! Hello, guys. How is everyone?
Monal S: How is everyone doing? How are you guys?
Monal S: So guys, I am Monal. My name is Monal.
Monal S: And before introducing myself in the professional career, I am professionally mentor as well here, okay? So, I… I teach ultimate data science, that is… guys, what is Ultimate Data Science? Is it a modern path, or it is a traditional path?
Monal S: Tell me, you guys are following Krista, right?
Monal S: It is a traditional, so I am one of the mentors who teaches the traditional path, and you guys have joined? You guys have joined for what path? How many of you remember what course you joined?
Monal S: Tell me, modern, yes.
Monal S: So, you guys are here for Modern Path, alright? Sunny will be teaching, other mentors will be teaching, and if you guys ever need me, I will share my LinkedIn as well, so you can check that out later. And if I talk about, in enterprise level, I am also a data scientist.
Monal S: working in office hours, and I work on a lot of projects, Agent TKI, which you are going to learn in this part, right? Agent TKI, MCP servers, Generative AI, you're going to learn a lot of things, right? So…
Monal S: Yes, that is who I am, in very short, in very tag-like label-for-me description. All right, everyone?
Monal S: Alright, so I will be teaching you today the setup, how to do the setup, and we will also see
Monal S: the introduction of generative AI, what exactly it is, where we are right now in 2026, yes.
Krish Naik: So, Monal, I'll just… just give me time.
Monal S: Good.
Krish Naik: Okay? So guys, for all the USA people and people who are from Canada, so this is, I, we definitely want some suggestion from you, and who are from different, different time zones, right? We are planning… see, many people, what happens is that many students comes to us saying that, Krish, the session is…
Krish Naik: at night, late night, this is happening, that is happening. So for them, we are trying to come up with something wherein, we come up with a time pattern so that
Krish Naik: you know, everybody should be able to, independently join, and we are trying to also come up with mentors who will be able to work in that time zone also, okay?
Krish Naik: So, yeah, soon you'll be getting a mail to probably join a Zoom webinar to understand how well we can accommodate everyone in their time zone.
Krish Naik: We bring some of the mentors from our side, you know, who will be ready to work at night in India time, like around 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock in the morning. Okay, so I have prepared some mentors who are ready for that also. So, do you think this is a good idea to go ahead with, you know?
Krish Naik: Because definitely we are coming up with… we really want to go to international, making sure that every time zone is basically covered up, okay?
Krish Naik: Yeah? So, yeah, so a mail will soon be coming up, okay? Please make sure to fill the form, okay, for all those people. I don't think it is a time issue for US zone right now. Is it, US people, I think, later on, within one month and all, right, that…
Krish Naik: Like, if I probably say right now, 8 o'clock, the EST time zone may be something else, right?
Krish Naik: I think it'll be more than 12 hours, I guess.
Krish Naik: Okay.
Krish Naik: So, perfect,
Krish Naik: So, 10.30am in Toronto, this is perfect, no issues, the time is great, it's 9.30 CSG. Okay. We'll try to understand, because I really want to see that what all things we can basically do, okay? Perfect.
Krish Naik: Great, Monal, now, the plan is, please go ahead with all the installation, make sure to have the recent, like, UV package and all, okay? Yes, yes. So guys, again, let me give some more introduction about Monal, right?
Krish Naik: He has probably taken the traditional route, two batches we have launched in Krishnak Academy, and is an exceptional mentor.
Krish Naik: who makes sure to teach each and everything. Specifically, if you see his Python lectures in 2.0 or 1.0, right? He goes from the machine to coding, you know? So, that is the level of detailed explanation he basically gives, okay?
Krish Naik: We would definitely like to, you know, probably, if you get a chance sometime in… if you really want to go into traditional mode once or the other time, right? Definitely go through his recordings in the later stages, okay? Okay? So he takes really well class, and today, so I requested him to probably come and, you know, do the best kind of installation, what is basically required for the modern route, and along with that.
Krish Naik: He will also talk about the introduction to generative AI, right? And from the next session, we are going to start with transformers and all.
Krish Naik: Okay.
Monal S: That's awesome.
Krish Naik: to you. Yes. Okay, if you require any help.
Monal S: Sure, sure, sir, sure, yeah, thank you.
Krish Naik: Okay.
Monal S: Alright, guys. And guys, please…
Krish Naik: Please, guys, please, many people who are saying, Krish, we don't have the way to talk. Right now, we are not allowed to talk. After the session gets over, we will be having doubt clearing session, okay? So our mentor will be Sunny only. Today's session, so Monol has come to probably give you the installation instructions. Yeah, Monal, you can continue.
Monal S: Shows that, yeah, I'll make it.
Monal S: Alright guys, so let me set some of the rules that we are going to have, not some rigid rules, okay?
Monal S: You guys will only be able to chat, to me. You guys not be able to chat with other people in the…
Monal S: community, or in the chat section, okay? And whenever you are having any doubt, please try to reply in your Zoom chat section, not in the community. Because a lot of people, what they do, they try to ask questions in the community, and I cannot look at 5 different screens right now, okay? So, we will be using only one channel, that is Zoom chat section, not even Q&A, not even, yes, here. Yes, Khuju. Everyone, you are able to see chat.
Monal S: You guys are writing, hi, okay, everything, right? So we'll be using it here, okay? And the expectation is only one place to write your queries here. And if I miss any one of query, guys.
Monal S: I don't have a personal issue with anyone. This is what people feel like, is that I'm not, listening to them. No. I'm able to see everyone's query, but at a time, I can only process few information.
Monal S: Are we clear? So if you miss something, try to copy and paste your question in some text box, in some other place. So, whenever we start some doubt session, you guys can ask your query again.
Monal S: Clear? Is everyone clear how we should proceed with this? With not just me, but with other mentors also, this is how you should proceed. Clear with what you want to ask, write that question, and later you can ask.
Monal S: Okay? Alright.
Monal S: Okay, just… wait. Okay, clear. That's great. So, let me start sharing my screen, and then…
Monal S: Guys, is my screen clear? There is no lag, my voice is clear, everything is clear.
Monal S: Alright, awesome.
Monal S: My handwriting is not the best in the world, but you guys have to work through today's flaws, okay?
Monal S: So today is…
Monal S: 22 of March 2026. Don't worry, I have already prepared a document, so you don't have to write anything. And whatever I'm going to do, first, listen to the instruction, get yourself clarity that this is the XY step, because if I show you, guys.
Monal S: If I show you, see, sometimes my voice breaks because of this bandwidth issue which I'm having here, so I'm going to disable my video, but you will be able to see your, the screen share, okay? So let me show you one thing which I've already prepared for you, so that you guys will get a confidence that
Monal S: What is expected, okay?
Monal S: You don't have to prepare notes. Is everyone able to see my screen, this doc?
Monal S: Everyone?
Monal S: So, I have prepared all the code that you guys… that you have to write in the terminal or everywhere, so you don't have to do anything.
Monal S: Once a big portion of the instruction is completed, I will share this document right now in the community, you guys can download it, but don't try to open it and execute it. Just download it, keep it open in your browser, later we will focus. Because before even installing this, I want to tell you a few things about why exactly we are doing something. Why this is not just Windows, this is for everything, okay?
Monal S: And, just wait, alright?
Monal S: I think the community is loading because a lot of people are using, but I will upload it, okay? I will upload it soon. So let's get started on the agenda part of today's class. So guys, what is today's agenda? Can someone please tell me what is today's agenda?
Monal S: What is today's agenda?
Monal S: Setup.
Monal S: we want our system set up, so we want to set up tools in our system, alright? And once we are done with the tool setup, then the next thing is…
Monal S: Introduction to generative AI.
Monal S: generative AI.
Monal S: Okay, now you guys will tell me how many of you are familiar already with Python?
Monal S: How many of you already know Python? Guys?
Monal S: I'm looking for one… only one answer.
Monal S: Familiar, learned from you, okay, yep. If you learned from me, then I can guarantee that you know Python.
Monal S: Learning, familiar, beginner, alright. Okay? So, guys, this prerequisite is… Krishna has already probably told you in the previous class, but there are some prerequisites. Prerequisite is not like you should know everything, but you should know at least basic of what you should…
Monal S: what is required for this course, right? So, a lot of people have already learned from me in UDS2, and okay. So, Python is the prerequisite, so other mentor, when Sunny will join, and probably in the next class, then they will not teach you Python.
Monal S: I'm not doing the introduction… introduction class of this course. This is Setup Tools and Introduction of Generative AI.
Monal S: Okay, so we should know Python, we should be familiar with creating Python small projects, and other things. Small projects, not a big one, alright? So that part should be there. But don't worry, even if Python is not installed in your system, I am going to install Python from scratch in my system. UV, I will be installing, I will be installing all the tools that is required for the thing, alright?
Monal S: So, today's agenda is set up the tools, and then introduction to Generative AI. I'm able to open, this, so let me also share this guide
Monal S: Guys, the guide is being uploaded in the community, you guys can later download it.
Monal S: Everyone is supposed to use the chat. I'm again repeating, everyone is supposed to use chat, don't use Q&A and the community. Alright? Okay.
Monal S: Alright, so let's get started.
Monal S: For any beginner, anyone, beginner, advanced, intermediate, whatever users you are, tell me what are tools. Why do we even require to set up tools?
Monal S: Guys, why do we even require to set up tools? Why we want it?
Monal S: What are tools?
Monal S: Our main target is… our main target is… to learn generative AI.
Monal S: Yes? Generative AI is what? It's a field. It's a field of AI. Yes?
Monal S: Generative AI is a field of AI.
Monal S: And AI is, again, a domain using which we instruct our systems to make intelligent decisions. Everyone, let me disable the chat for now so that you guys can focus, okay? Generative AI itself is a field of AI, and what is AI?
Monal S: AI are systems that learn and take decisions of its own, by its own, alright? That is AI. But to make that decision, we need to write code.
Monal S: We need to write code.
Monal S: And code is water code? Code are instructions to the system.
Monal S: Code our instructions to the system.
Monal S: Instructions to the system.
Monal S: A lot of you are already familiar that
Monal S: In data science, in this whole data science field, we work with Yep.
Monal S: In this data science, we work with Python. Python is the language that data science, as the community, has chosen the language. So, we'll be using language Python.
Monal S: Alright, so we require what? We require a way to access Python. And also, where we are going to write Python.
Monal S: Where we are going to write code.
Monal S: Right now, we don't have answers for this.
Monal S: Now I will tell you the tools that we will be installing in this particular lecture, and what and at which stage we'll be using that tools. Now.
Monal S: If I talk about Python, where we can get Python? So, we'll be using a tool called SUV, which will enable us
Monal S: Python.
Monal S: Okay? U, V. I will tell you how to install all of this. And now if I talk about where we are going to write code, we are going to write code, I will tell you the difference between editor, ID, and other things.
Monal S: But we are going to use VS Code to write our coding instruction. So this is the tool by which we will write code, and this is the tool using that, this is the tool using that we will have Python in our system.
Monal S: Alright, this is what we're going to do. So, in this lecture, we are going to install UV, we are going to install Python.
Monal S: VS Code, and we will also see the generative AI introduction, alright? Now, the first thing that we will do is, we will focus on UV later, but now if I talk about write code, write code is VS Code, right? Now, if I talk about
Monal S: Code.
Monal S: If I want to write code, what are the different methods to write code? There are 3 different categories.
Monal S: We call them editor, code editor, and then IDE.
Monal S: Okay? Now you guys tell me in the chat, what is the full form of IDE? You guys have learned Python. Tell me what is the full form of IDE. If not, don't worry, I will explain it. But what is IDE?
Monal S: Integrated Development Environment.
Monal S: Alright, awesome. You guys know it. So, if you don't know, let me write integrated integrated… development, involvement.
Monal S: Okay? Now let's understand each of them. Just see, on a high-level overview. Our focus is not to learn everything in base, right? Our focus is that we should have tools so that we can learn Generative AI. Guys, there is certain expectation that is from your side, that
Monal S: you guys also have to work… you are learning generative AI, so expectation will be you guys should be using Generative AI. Your mentor will be teaching you how to use AI, how to use ChatGPT to also answer your queries. That I will also teach you in this class as well. The basic part of it, okay? Now let's talk about editor. Let me disable the chat.
Monal S: Let me disable the check. So, what is editor?
Monal S: Editor is a tool. Editor is, again, a tool which enables us to write the code Create a file.
Monal S: create a file. It also enables us to update the code
Monal S: etc. Okay? The only functionality is write, create a file, update the code. If I show you one of those tools, I have Notepad is present in Windows, this is about Notepad. Let me open one of these tabs.
Monal S: And this is how the notepad looks like.
Monal S: Okay? Notepad.
Monal S: In macOS and Linux, you will find something like text editor or node, where you will see you can write something, okay? You can write something, you can click on any of this function which enables you to save the code, save the file, or other things. But here, you can only write the code, save the file, update anything.
Monal S: Alright, if I want to save this, let's suppose I want to save this.
Monal S: And because the Python is a prerequisite, what I will say, I want to save it as a.py, just a dummy file. Just a dummy file, and then I'm going to save it. So you can see, I was able to create a Python file from this software, but it does not give me any other functionality. I'm able to write, I'm able to edit.
Monal S: I'm able to save, and then I'm also able to create a file.
Monal S: Is this part clear what is an IDE? IDE is nothing complex. Is everyone clear what is an IDE? It's a tool, using that, we can write the code. You guys don't have to search in your system, just look at my screen, because we are not going to work with editor, we are going to work with Code Editor.
Monal S: Alright, awesome. Now let's jump to the next part. Code Editor. Code Editor has all the functionalities. Code Editor is also a tool. It has all the functionalities of editor, plus
Monal S: Plus… It enables you It enables you to look at the syntax.
Monal S: Syntax error, highlight of the keywords, highlight.
Monal S: highlight, etc.
Monal S: So, all the things that we are able to have in the editor, plus it gives you access to more of those tools using which, which helps us in development. If I show you one of those tools, let me show you. I have one of those tools called as anti-gravity. We are not going to use anti-gravity.
Monal S: But… just wait… anti-gravity… this is one of those tools which is called as Code Editor, okay? But here, if I show you… let me open something… alright, I'm working on one project, which I will tell later, but…
Monal S: Are you able to see this UI?
Monal S: This is a UI, I'm able to create a file, I can create a file from it, I can read file, can I also see highlight?
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: Everyone is able to see some highlight colors.
Monal S: The code readability is better, the code readability is better. Yes, this is called as code editor.
Monal S: Okay? It's an editor that is made specifically for coding, so it helps us do better coding, it helps us manage projects, manage our code files, and etc. Alright?
Monal S: This is Code Editor. Now, the examples of Code Editor are VS Code is one of those code editors. I showed you anti-gravity.
Monal S: I showed you anti-gravity as well.
Monal S: There are some advantages which you will learn later, but we should always start with the most manual method, alright? So we'll be working with VS Code, because the more… the base… the more we talk about the base, the better our base gets cleared, the concepts part, alright? Yes, we also have cursor.
Monal S: So these are different tools which enables us the code… which gives us the code editor, alright? Now, let's talk about IDE.
Monal S: Okay, now let's talk about IDE.
Monal S: IDE is, again, tool.
Monal S: IDE is, again, a tool Which gives you all the functionality.
Monal S: Okay? Which gives you all the functionality of Code Editor.
Monal S: Plus, it gives you more development tools. It gives you things like you will be able to debug, you will be able to manage multiple projects faster, you will get more specific tools for a particular language. Are we clear?
Monal S: Alright, we will have a generative AI lecture as well.
Monal S: Is everyone clear? We will get. So, one of those tools which I currently have in my system is for Java. It's for Java. You were able to see this? IntelliJ.
Monal S: One of those tools
Monal S: and TeleJ. This is made for Java, but using this kind of an IDE, I can also enab… it also enables Python, but we have to make some changes. But it is made for Java. If I open it, this is…
Monal S: usually a very heavy software, larger than the coderator, you can see, it will enable you a lot of different things. Let's open it. Okay.
Monal S: Yeah, I don't want to bug.
Monal S: with this… continue with auto subscription and restart. Let's wait, okay?
Monal S: Guys, I will answer each and everything.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Eclist is there, but IntelliJ is the industry standard.
Monal S: That's great, okay. Here you can see there are a lot more things just for the development, okay? You will be able to find different functionalities available for this, okay? So, let me exit this. This is our IDE.
Monal S: So, as I told you, out of this, which software I will be installing, which software I will be guiding you to install.
Monal S: I told you that IDE can do everything plus more. IDE can do everything plus more, but why we are focusing on VS Code?
Monal S: Because now let's talk about the advantages. Code editors like VS Code.
Monal S: Let's talk about the advantages.
Monal S: code editor like VS Code becomes powerful Becomes powerful from extensions.
Monal S: How many of you are familiar with extensions of Chrome?
Monal S: How many of you are familiar with extensions of Chrome? In Chrome, we have a lot of extensions. Think of those as, like, applications. So, VS Code, anti-gravity, all of anti-gravity VS Code.
Monal S: all of this anti-gravity and cursor, actually took the base from the VS Code, then they built on top of it, okay? So they are VS Code plus mode, but we are taking the VS Code, so it is powerful because of extension, and because it does not have all of this functionality.
Monal S: It does not have all of this functionality, it is also lightweight.
Monal S: VS Code might take you 2GB, but this particular software, like Intelligent, might consume you 9GB of your system storage. Which one is lighter?
Monal S: Which one is nitr?
Monal S: Just from the size, just from the file size, tell me which one is lighter. VS Code. And if we are able to do our majority of the work, or all of the work in VS Code, do we even need to go to the IDE?
Monal S: For learning, for development projects, no. So VS Code is also one of their software that we use it in production. If you want to be very specific for certain type of development, if you talk about
Monal S: the IDE for Python, we call that as PyChump.
Monal S: Okay? You guys can work with PyCharm, but that installation we will not be teaching. We are focusing on something that is lightweight, that can run on any one system.
Monal S: Clear difference between editor, code editor, and ID. Lot of people think that VS Code is an ID, no. VS Code is a code editor.
Monal S: Okay? Yeah. Chantu, you can do it, but if I talk about ID, you can do a lot more things, other than just debug.
Monal S: Is everyone clear, guys, about this code part? We are clear with write code? Done.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Now let's talk about Python.
Monal S: Yeah, NordPet++ is also a coordinator.
Monal S: Okay? And guys, all the queries I will be checking later, so even if you raise hand right now, if I focus on asking… answering your queries, it will…
Monal S: break the flow. So later, alright? At the end of the class, we will be asking… we'll be clearing everyone's dots. Alright, next is, we are done with the code that… which one we are using, why we are using, now let's talk about Python.
Monal S: We want a programming language to be installed in our system, so we can learn Generative AI.
Monal S: So Python is just a programming language. Python is not equals to generative AI. A lot of people think that whenever I talk about generative AI, it is Python. No. Python is equals to programming language. Are you clear?
Monal S: I know a lot of beginners are also here, and you need to learn a lot of things, alright? It's a programming language. Python will enable us
Monal S: generative AI, because community developers, developers, plus…
Monal S: community, developers are the community itself. They develop the generative AI frameworks, coding, research, all on Python only.
Monal S: Okay? Majority of the things is happening in Python. Yes, you can use Java, but you have to create your own code. But here, because of developer community.
Monal S: the code… a lot of the code is already available to us. We just need to use our mind, logic, the concepts, and then we'll be able to build our own system, alright?
Monal S: And we want Python first, okay? Now let's talk about how can we get Python in our system. There are 3 different ways to get Python, okay? There are 3 different ways. We install Python, we install
Monal S: Python in our system, using python.org. From python.org, it's a website. We can go there and just install, we will be able to download the Python and install Python-like application.
Monal S: Think of it as like a Spotify. If you go to the Spotify page, you will be able to download the Spotify and install it, but this will only enable you Spotify. Here, in our case, it is Python.
Monal S: Next week.
Monal S: We can install Python via a package manager, Anaconda.
Monal S: Okay? Anaconda has two different softwares.
Monal S: We are not talking about an encounter, but I'm just giving you intro about it, okay? One of them is…
Monal S: Miniconda, And then we have Anaconda.
Monal S: But both of them will enable us
Monal S: to install. Both of them will enable the Python programming in our system, plus more.
Monal S: Plus, more.
Monal S: Anaconda is very powerful, but for now, we'll be using lightweight, just like… think of Anaconda as, like, an IDE, okay? Think of Anaconda as, like, an IDE, but now think of the next tool, the final tool which we are going to use.
Monal S: we are going to select from these three, it's called as UV. So UV can do… UV can do majority of the thing Anaconda can do, but…
Monal S: Also, being lightweight.
Monal S: Anaconda is not lightweight, UV is very lightweight and very fast. So the advantages of UV is very fast. It is written in Rust.
Monal S: It is written in Rust.
Monal S: That is lightweight.
Monal S: It is not…
Monal S: that big software like Anaconda. Anaconda might consume 2.7GB, sometimes 5.7GB, based on what version you are downloading. So we'll be using a UV. UV will enable us Python.
Monal S: UV will enable us Python, plus things like VENV, plus things like package manager as well.
Monal S: Okay? Package manager, we also get in here, in terms of Anaconda, we also get here, but…
Monal S: Using UV, we can also separate.
Monal S: Python environments.
Monal S: Okay, Python environments. Now, let me ask one thing in chat. Let's see how much you guys know Python. How many of you know VENV?
Monal S: a module, or you can say library, called as VENV.
Monal S: Get everyone… okay, now let me change the question, because I think a lot of people know. How many of you guys stop, stop, stop writing anything Czech, okay?
Monal S: Now I want people who does not know about VENV.
Monal S: Paper who does not know about VENV, alright? Now I'm getting… okay.
Monal S: It means there are a lot, okay? Now let's see, guys.
Monal S: When you install Python, this is basic Python. I'm not seeing any of this. I'm not seeing any of this above, okay? Let's only focus on Python, and let me also create a separation, so you guys know what we are doing.
Monal S: Alright, this messed up our Python, my Y… Alright.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Hold on.
Monal S: And then this is a different color, so let me write this with a different color.
Monal S: Okay, 1, 2, and 3.
Monal S: I cannot see chat messages, as I told you at the start, you will not be able to see chat messages, only me. Alright, everyone, let me disable the chat and focus on the concept now.
Monal S: VENV. Whenever you install Python using any of the above method, there are three methods I told you, using any of this above method, Python also installed
Monal S: Python also installs a library… actually, it is not a library, it's a module, okay? It's a module called as VENV. And you guys, if you don't know the difference between module and library, please refresh your Python part, okay? But I'm writing a generic term, because a lot of people are new here.
Monal S: So, Python creates a VENV, which helps us enable creation of environments.
Monal S: environments, but virtual environment. Virtual environment.
Monal S: Okay? When you install Python, you get only one executable file of Python.
Monal S: Only one executable file of Python. Using this Python, if you want to install library, let's suppose you want to install NumPy.
Monal S: you want to install NumPy in your system, you can only install… you can only install
Monal S: one version of NumPy at a time. One version of NumPy at a time. At a time. You can only have one version, using basic Python.
Monal S: But what happens in VNV? VNV separates, virtually, the folder… there is a one folder, I will show you one folder, okay? VNV helps us separate a folder
Monal S: where the installation happens. So, previously, I was installing the NumPy in my original Python folder, but now, because of VNV, if I want to install NumPy separately and keep it separate from the original Python, I can install it differently. So, let's suppose I am working on one project.
Monal S: I am working on one project, I can install
Monal S: NumPy 1.2.1. If I'm working on another project.
Monal S: and this project requires a different version of NumPy, then let's suppose I can use 1.4.1. So now, in the same system, without changing anything, just using this particular VNV, this particular module, I can have two different projects and two different NumPy in my same system.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Is everyone clear?
Monal S: Guys, a lot of things…
Monal S: we learn in basic Python. So if I show you, if I write where Python, you guys don't do anything in terminal. I will get some kind of a directory. Let me show you this directory.
Monal S: Are we able to see lib folder? Guys, do you… are you able to see lib folder?
Monal S: Yes? When you install Python, you only have one lib folder.
Monal S: If we only have one lib folder, it means whatever we will install, you can only keep one, just like your mobile phone. In your smartphone as well, can you install to Spotify?
Monal S: And your smartphone can install two Spotify at a time.
Monal S: No. So, when you install a Python, you get this particular file, a single instance. You only get this instance.
Monal S: Okay? But when you work with VE&V, let me show you… Just… Okay.
Monal S: Let me assure you actual practical. Right now, don't ask me that
Monal S: what exactly I am doing, just see the main concept of creation of different lib, okay? Test.
Monal S: Damn, dummy.
Monal S: I will go inside this, then I will use my Python commands here. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Let me zoom in.
Monal S: Okay? And then I will write python hyphen VENVVENV. Let's see, guys!
Monal S: This is a VENV is created.
Monal S: It is currently waiting. If I go inside this folder, are we able to see lib?
Monal S: Guys, are we able to see lib? A different lib?
Monal S: Now, if I work inside this particular folder.
Monal S: whatever I will install, if I want to install any version of NumPy, later we'll talk about how to activate things and others. But if I install any new library, it will go inside this folder, it will not go inside… it will not go inside the original Python location.
Monal S: That is here.
Monal S: That is… here.
Monal S: So, using this, we are able to separate our library from the original Python installation.
Monal S: Okay? Our library from the original Python installation. So think of it as, like, you have a smartphone.
Monal S: You have a smartphone.
Monal S: This is a smartphone. You can only keep… this is a smartphone, it is running some iOS. Let's suppose you have…
Monal S: Apple, you have iOS. Here, you can only keep one Spotify.
Monal S: But let's suppose in this iOS, you are able to install multiple iOS.
Monal S: Now, in all of these boxes, can we have a different Spotify? Because it is already iOS?
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: Does this solve our issue of working with multiple projects?
Monal S: Yes, it solves the issue of working with multiple projects. So, VENV creates it, but VNV is not the original iOS.
Monal S: VENV is not the original iOS, it is a copy of original Python.
Monal S: Are we clear? It is a copy of original Python.
Monal S: Done.
Monal S: Is this concept clear to each and every one of you?
Monal S: Guys, if not, I will teach you again, okay?
Monal S: Alright.
Monal S: Great. It was detailed? Yes, everything will be in detail.
Monal S: So, this is about VENV. Now, let's see. What is the one issue? As I told you, it is a copy. It means if I install Python 3.6 in my install, VENV will also have
Monal S: If I have Python 3.6 in my system, VEMV will also have
Monal S: Tell me. It will also have Python 3.6. I told you it is a copy.
Monal S: I told you it is a copy?
Monal S: But it separates the label folder, that's the only difference. It copies your original Python, but creates a new label folder I showed you in the demo.
Monal S: Right? That is the issue.
Monal S: The issue is, yes, on a project level, on a project level, now I have separate lib folder. Yes, now that I have separate lib folder, it means I can have NumPy 1.2, just an example, guys.
Monal S: And then I can have NumPy 1.6. But now, what will happen if I want
Monal S: Python, if I want, Python… 3.6 in this project, and… Python 3.10 in this project.
Monal S: Do you think… That this particular tool will help us here.
Monal S: This particular tool will help us here? No.
Monal S: Nope.
Monal S: This particular tool will not help us. So, we are supposed to use, everyone, it's not like VENV is unusable, it is bad.
Monal S: We are supposed to use VENV when we know
Monal S: when we know what we are doing, when we know the Python version and other things. But VNV alone is not a great tool. So, do you think that we should only go with… we should only go with the first method of installation, install the Python? Where is our Python? Yeah.
Monal S: But you just want to install Python.
Monal S: No, this one feels like it will work for a certain time, but after a while, this particular thing will not work.
Monal S: Alright? Now, this particular problem that we have, that we want functionality of VENV, but we also want something which can separate our Python.
Monal S: And Conda and UV are those tools. Anaconda…
Monal S: In Anaconda, we actually use a tool called Asconda, okay? So Anaconda, Conda, and UV helps us… helps us create, helps us manage different Python versions.
Monal S: Manage, different… Python version.
Monal S: Plus, because it has Python, when you install Python, VNV is a part of
Monal S: VENV is a part of Python, or this software? Tell me.
Monal S: V-E-N-V,
Monal S: VENV is a part of Python itself, or UV or Anaconda? Venv is a part of Python. If, from UV or Conda, I can have different versions of Python, let's suppose 3.6, 3.8, when we install this using UV or Conda, we automatically get a VENV,
Monal S: So now, is it solving our problem?
Monal S: Is it solving our problem?
Monal S: Hi, everyone?
Monal S: Yes, our problem is now solved.
Monal S: So, I will be installing UV in my system, you guys can replicate it later.
Monal S: Shoeta, the problem was multiple versions of Python, okay? I will be installing UV in my system. Once a big part is done, I will be… I already shared you the document, right? How many of you are able to download the document from the community? Learn.krishnaacademy.com.
Monal S: How many of you are able to download?
Monal S: Not yet.
Monal S: Okay, oh, okay. Because there is a lot of load, guys, it is not working, but okay. Let me share in the chat here, okay? Let me share in the chat.
Monal S: But don't panic if you still don't get it, don't worry about it, I will share it.
Monal S: Okay? Don't worry.
Monal S: Where is it? Okay.
Monal S: Yeah. Yeah, guys, main focus is just listen, okay?
Monal S: Alright.
Monal S: Now tell me why we are not using Conda.
Monal S: Guys, because there are a lot of people now, server will be able to handle it after the class, okay? Why we are not using Conda, why we are not using Anaconda?
Monal S: Tell me why we are not using Anaconda. It is heavy. It is not slow, it is heavy.
Monal S: UV is fast. That's the only difference. Whatever we are able to do, both can be solved by Anaconda as well as UV.
Monal S: Okay? That's all.
Monal S: And people are asking, what is UV? Guys, UV is a company, and they… UV is a tool. UV is a tool
Monal S: And I will show you that what is the main parent company of UV.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Don't write anything, just look at my screen.
Monal S: This is UV.
Monal S: UV is from Astral. Astral is a company. UV is their tool, which helps us
Monal S: manage Python versions, and Python enables us VENB.
Monal S: Okay? And guys, by community, I mean this.
Monal S: This is what I mean by community. Not the chat, this is our community.
Monal S: All right?
Monal S: Let's focus.
Monal S: Got it.
Monal S: So, now that we have a pretty clear idea on
Monal S: For generative AI, we require tools UV and VS Code. Why we're using UV? Why we are having VS Code.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: Guys, it is uploading on community, it will take some time, because there is a load.
Monal S: Chanai, it's a tool to separate Python, that's all.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Yeah. Using UV, we can tell UV that I want a specific version of Python.
Monal S: And when we install that Python, we will get V, E, and V. Using UV, we can do that. But if we don't use UV, it means we need to install Python in our system. But in our system, we can only install one version of Python stably.
Monal S: Okay, we can only have one stable version of Python. You can install multiple, but it will not work.
Monal S: So, do you want only one version of Python, or you want some tool which manages Python?
Monal S: We want some tool which manages Python.
Monal S: Guys, I told you, please don't panic about the document. Document will be shared, but for now, focus on my screen. I will be using the document to do the coding.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: I will be using that document.
Monal S: And implementing things here.
Monal S: I will not do anything else.
Monal S: Alright, don't panic, don't panic, I know this is your first or second class.
Monal S: But don't worry about it. Alright.
Monal S: Now, I'm asking for the final time, is everyone clear with UV?
Monal S: Is everyone clear with a UV?
Monal S: Now, let me ask some Q&A.
Monal S: Let me ask some Q&A.
Monal S: V and V, we have… VS Code, Python UV.
Monal S: 1, 2, 3.
Monal S: Tell me VNV is a part of 1, 2, or 3.
Monal S: People said UV.
Monal S: Guys, I just told you, VENV is a library that we get when we install Python.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Done?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: And, that's all. I don't have a lot of quizzes right now, okay?
Monal S: I only told you one thing. Are you enjoying today's class?
Monal S: Guys?
Monal S: Yes, only one question. It is not a Q&A, guys, I just made it up. Just wanted to check that how many of you are able to answer.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Guys, class will be basic, I cannot teach you generative AI without this installation.
Monal S: If you guys can confirm that you will help others who are not able to do the installation, then I will skip it, but I know you will not guarantee. So we want everyone to be on the same page, it means everyone should have access to the tools, alright? Alright. Now, let's start the installation. First thing that we will do is, we will start the VS Code.
Monal S: V means first me, then you guys will check it later. VS Code. Okay? We will install VS Code. And for the VS Code, guys.
Monal S: Let me disable the chat.
Monal S: And look at the screen right now, okay?
Monal S: For the VS Code, we need to search VS Code in our browser, in our search engine, Google. I'm using VS Code, and here you will be able to see Visual Studio Code, the open source AI coordinator. Just look at the screen, don't worry, I will not
Monal S: show you too many steps, I will give you some time to replicate the steps.
Monal S: I will click on Visual Studio Code, or any of the link, guys. You can click on any of the link, you can click on this particular left section, this will enable you to go to the home. But right now, I'm clicking on the home already. This is home. Here you can see we have docs, Updates, Block. Don't do it, I will not repeat it.
Monal S: talks, updates, blog, API extension, MCP, we have a lot of things, alright? What I want to do, you can see a download button is also there on the right section.
Monal S: I will click on download, then it will show me different versions. Windows 10 11, this is for Unix, okay? Unix system, Linux system, this is Unix, actually, this is Linux. You can see for Debian, Ubuntu, this is for Fedora and others version of the Linux. In my system, I have…
Monal S: Windows. In yours, you most probably will have Mac. But based on your Mac, whether you have an Apple Silicon or Intel chip, download that version.
Monal S: Okay? Download that version. You can download the DMG file, you will be able to install it. Right now, what I'm going to do, you can see this user installation. I'm going to click on user installation, okay? And I will be clicking on X64. Let's click on X64.
Monal S: And then you can see the download is automatically started.
Monal S: Alright, so after downloading, I will be showing you, how to install it.
Monal S: Guys, please do the steps.
Monal S: I know your internet might be faster than me, but please do the steps.
Monal S: And once you're done, write done in the chat.
Monal S: Oh, you was already done. Please borrow me.
Monal S: I want your internet speed, guys. If you already have a PS code, it's fine. If you already have PS code, it's totally fine, don't do anything else.
Monal S: Already hide it? That's good. It means a lot of you are already prepared, but if you don't have it, I'm showing you, okay?
Monal S: That's great.
Monal S: Okay? How much internet speed you guys have?
Monal S: How much internet speed you guys have?
Monal S: 100 Mbps, I also have 100, but it never gave me 100. 400.
Monal S: I also saw GBPS, What?
Monal S: You guys are also having GVPS? That's great, guys. Awesome. Okay. Disable the chat. Are we ready? Can I show the screen?
Monal S: Can I start the installation?
Monal S: Guys, if you have Miniconda, it's also fine. If you know how to use the environment, you don't even require UV.
Monal S: Okay? Totally up to you. Alright.
Monal S: Okay, guys, I disabled the chat, look at my screen, okay? If you're still typing, and if you miss something, that is…
Monal S: You're creating problems for them.
Monal S: This is where things got downloaded. I will click here, and then you will be able to see that this is my VS Code in my Windows. Okay, Mac people, you should know how to install anything in your system. Just a software, not a coding thing.
Monal S: I will double-click, and I don't have VS Code in my system, so it will install from the very scratch. At the first screen, I should be clicking on, I accept the agreement.
Monal S: Okay? If you want to read the agreement, first read the agreement, but I don't want to read it, okay? If Microsoft want to hack my system, they can hack it, okay? I'm giving full access.
Monal S: So, I accept the agreement, and then I will click on next. First thing, I accept the agreement. Don't say, sir, please repeat it. I will not be able to repeat this, guys. Look at my screen. I accept the agreement, click on next.
Monal S: It is giving you this location, that in this location, it will be installing in my system. SCL, app data, SCL is my username, then app data, local, programs, and then it will finally create Microsoft VS Code.
Monal S: I will click on next. Don't change anything. If you guys are familiar with installing something in a different folder, do it.
Monal S: But I don't want… I will not recommend it for new people. So this is my location. Whatever location it is giving you directly, it is saying that 500MB it will… it requires, minimum. I will click on next.
Monal S: Click on next.
Monal S: And then, here, it will ask you that it is automatically there. Add to Path. Guys, make sure that this one is checked. Do not uncheck this.
Monal S: I'm repeating, do not uncheck this for me. I downloaded just now the latest version of Visual Studio. It should be added to path. Second is.
Monal S: register code. VS Code, in short, is code as an editor for supported files, yes. So if I want to open PY files, I'm telling my operating system that whenever you see Python file.
Monal S: And whenever I double-click on it, yes, it shows me that, do you want to open this with Visual Studio? Yes, I want.
Monal S: So, I want this, you guys can also add…
Monal S: these two sections that will help you. If you right-click on it, it will give you option, open with code, okay? So I selected all. I selected all.
Monal S: Is this part clear to everyone? Guys, I will not… after I select next and install, I will not install… I will not be able to install anything again.
Monal S: Clear, very simple. I selected all.
Monal S: Next… Install, and then it will install.
Monal S: Let's wait.
Monal S: One of the tools will be installed soon.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Yes, then it will ask you to launch the VS Code, let me launch the VS Code.
Monal S: So on the VS Code, we are able to see this is the new version of VS Code. You guys can choose theme, but you guys can choose theme later. You can close this, you can close this as well to make the screen clear, and then this is how your VS Code looks like, alright? Look at my screen, don't look at your screen. So, on the VS Code, I'm just going to navigate to a few things here, but before that, let me create something dummy here.
Monal S: This is test dummy. Inside this, we created VNB. So for now, what I will be doing, I will be showing you that I want to open this folder with VS Code. Guys.
Monal S: what I want to do.
Monal S: I have one folder called as Test Dummy inside my downloads folder. You guys can create wherever you want. But I have a test dummy folder. You guys will not have .env. Let me delete this. I don't want this.
Monal S: I don't want this .env. So, inside this folder, it is empty. There is no folder. I want to open this folder with my VS Code. So, what I will do, I will click on this file, and then I will click on Open Folder. Not file.
Monal S: Not workspace, but folder. I will click on Open Folder, and we'll select that test dummy. Now, when I select Test Dummy, now my VS Code
Monal S: Okay, you can click on Trust the authors of the files, yes, I trust the authors, and then VS Code will be active. Close everything, close everything. Now you can see on the Explorer that test dummy folder is opened here.
Monal S: test dummy folder is here. If you want to create something, let's suppose a.txt here, using this plus icon of the file, not folder. This one is for file, this one is for folder. If you press it, you will also see that a.txt is also present inside my folder.
Monal S: So now my VS Code is connected to my folder structure. Is this part clear?
Monal S: VS Code now is connected to my folder structure. Is everyone clear here? Guys, this is not at all some rocket science, this is very simple, okay? You guys do it in your smartphone if you want to download some MP3D, create some file, okay?
Monal S: Guys, you're able to see correct screen, right? Yeah, you're able to see correct screen, okay? So here, I will be able to create files. If I want to create A.PY, I will be able to… let me zoom in, so yeah, you guys can see it. For… to zoom in, you can press Ctrl plus to zoom in.
Monal S: Let me write, in this PY file, if you want to zoom, not in pby file, I'm just writing instructions. Okay, let me close it, let me create it in this TXT.
Monal S: 2… Zoom, and… VS Code. You will use CTRL, in Windows.
Monal S: plus, plus. You need to use this command. CTRL?
Monal S: And combination of CTRL and this plus will enable your Zoom.
Monal S: If you do the opposite, that is with minus, it will zoom out.
Monal S: Alright? Very simple. Very simple. Nothing to learn here, okay? This is, I have written it here. So you can see, this is Test Dummy, and here…
Monal S: Okay, let me ask one thing. How many of you are familiar with… how many of you are familiar with terminal?
Monal S: Everyone who knows Python Anyone here who does not know Python.
Monal S: Anyone here who does not know Python, anyone.
Monal S: Guys, literally, I'm not expecting me.
Monal S: Other.
Monal S: Okay. Let me give you one task for people who does not know Python. This is Sunday's class, I want you to be ready before the next class, okay?
Monal S: Assignment for people who does not know Python.
Monal S: Learn Python, but let's not waste time on learning the big chunk.
Monal S: You have your courses.
Monal S: Okay, and here you will search your course name. Your course name is Modern Route. That's wait.
Monal S: This is your course, everyone.
Monal S: And if you go to your course, don't say… repeat again. All you have to do is just look at my screen. This is your course. If you click on your course, you will see this is your course section.
Monal S: This is where you will see live recordings, this is where you will see prerequisite. Krisha has already added Python prerequisite playlist. For people who does not know, please complete Python as soon as possible, else you will struggle.
Monal S: You will struggle a lot, okay?
Monal S: Clear. Others, are we clear?
Monal S: Done. Complete Python as fast as possible. Okay.
Monal S: So, terminal is… let me open the terminal. To open the terminal, you can see, if I click on these three bars, or…
Monal S: If I zoom out, you will see these three dots.
Monal S: Here you will see Terminal, or terminal is Ctrl plus Shift plus tilde, okay? Or you can check in your system, in Mac, it might show you Ctrl plus that command one, okay? Click on this terminal, and then Terminal will open.
Monal S: This is the same terminal as console, using which we can… we can give instruction to the operating system.
Monal S: Alright, using terminal, we can give this operating system the instructions. We, in Windows, are not supposed to use PowerShell, because PowerShell has different commands. We should not use PowerShell. So what we will do, everyone focus here. Here you can see plus, and then this down arrow.
Monal S: I want you to click on plus, and then…
Monal S: Not plus. I wanted to click on this down arrow and click on Command Prompt. Okay, again, I'm showing you
Monal S: Click on this down arrow, and then click on Command Prompt. Now your command prompt is here.
Monal S: Okay? This command prompt, which you're able to see, is same as if you write in search, if you write terminal.
Monal S: This black screen is exactly same as this black screen. Here, you have a separate application, but in VS Core, you are getting this application integrated.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Are you clear?
Monal S: This is terminal.
Monal S: Guys, PowerShell has different commands. We are not supposed to use PowerShell, otherwise you have to learn commands of PowerShell and the commands of CMD. CMD is more stable to do the simple things.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Clear. So we are supposed to use CMD, and if you want to delete PowerShell from here, you can delete PowerShell, you will only be left with CMD. Alright, now you're inside TestTermini, you can see, because I opened it from my folder, my folder in VS Code, the same folder name is written here. Guys, if you don't know Terminal, please practice terminal, okay? This is an advanced class.
Monal S: Alright, test dummy, we already have it here. So, learn Python was one of your assignments, Ctrl plus zoom. Okay, now that we have VS Code installed in our system, we will… we don't have Python.
Monal S: And to use Python, which is the one tool we are going to install, tell me which is the one tool you are going to install. Guys, for Mac people, you will see Bash or ZFH.
Monal S: For Mac people, you will see zfetch or Bash, that is your terminal. In Windows, CMD is my terminal. Alright, next tool that we want is UV. UV. To install Python, to install Python, we are not going to directly install Python in our system. We are going to install UV first.
Monal S: And using UV, we will install Python.
Monal S: Now, how to install UV? Let me show you that webpage. Where is our website? Okay, this is UV.
Monal S: Alright? You can see, if you want to search UV, you will go to dock. Don't worry, don't write it, I have the documentation ready for you.
Monal S: Just search UV, it will show you ultraviolet radiation and other things, but if you scroll a little bit below, you will see from Astral Talks, UV Astral Talks.
Monal S: Okay, you will see UV Astral Dogs.
Monal S: Alright? If you click on it, you will be able to see getting started, installation section here. If you click on installation, you will see all of these different commands. All of these different commands to install it, okay? So, now what I will do, I will suggest Mac people to install it first via preview.
Monal S: If brew is not there, then install something else. So, let me share the document again with everyone, and all of those things are written in that document.
Monal S: UV master bag.
Monal S: Okay, UV, MasterCard.
Monal S: Guys, I've shared again. Did you got the PDF? Everyone received the PDF.
Monal S: Everyone? Okay, guys?
Monal S: People are confirming that they have the PDF, so don't say, I don't have the PDF. Not able to download? People are able to download.
Monal S: Okay, it is downloaded. So, we will not look at the documentation, we will only come here if we are stuck. Okay? If we are stuck.
Monal S: Or, what else I can do?
Monal S: Just…
Monal S: Here it goes. Okay.
Monal S: Where is the PDF? I'm giving you, one more.
Monal S: I can do…
Monal S: Yes, it is PowerSheet. See, for Python, I'm saying, okay?
Monal S: Just wait, I just want to create… This is giving me…
Monal S: I know a lot of people are not able to find in chat, that's why I am finding some alternative. Just wait, guys.
Monal S: Just wait, it is almost done.
Monal S: Oh, people are already, done with installation. Awesome, awesome, guys.
Monal S: All right.
Monal S: Guys, I'm sharing you one invite, okay? One link. Only people who are not able to access, please click on this link, otherwise this link will also hang. Only people who are not able to see the PDF. Click on this and download the PDF. Let me know once you're done, giving you 2 minutes maximum.
Monal S: Siva, if you do it, it's better, because, Sunny Sir might use UV, and then you might get confused.
Monal S: Nila, you need to try something out.
Monal S: Maybe try with cursor, cursor is also fine.
Monal S: Nila, if VScode, VS Code should be supported. Why?
Monal S: Is… is you… do you have the older version, Elam?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Guys, if you want the same exact thing that I'm doing, please follow my instruction, okay?
Monal S: Yes, it is necessary.
Monal S: Are we done? Is the link working?
Monal S: Is the link working? Guys, link is working.
Monal S: Okay, let me disable the chat, and then write the instruction. Because I know, again, you guys, panics.
Monal S: This is done. VS Code installation is done. Next thing is, we are installing UV.
Monal S: And if you don't have that file still, what you will do, you will… first thing is…
Monal S: Watch me do it.
Monal S: Okay, watch me install the UV. Later, you guys have access to the recordings, you guys will be able to do it. It is only 2-3 steps, that's all. If you get error, then the steps will increase. But…
Monal S: I will be installing it in my system, just look at my screen. Alright, done. Disabled.
Monal S: Where is my UV? Just let me look at my UV file.
Monal S: Where is my UV? Okay. Okay.
Monal S: So, in this PDF, you can see that UV is extremely fast Python package and project manager, so it also manages Python, as well as project management, that is a VENV part. It replaces tools like pip, pip tools, VENV, PyVNV, there are a lot of things, okay? We don't have to worry about it. If you're not familiar with Python a lot, then…
Monal S: This… all of these things will feel foreign to you.
Monal S: Step number one, robust installation means that it is the priority number one. For Windows 10 and 11, you guys are supposed to copy this particular command, copy this particular command. Guys, only for Windows, I'm seeing for now. Copy this particular command.
Monal S: Open your VS Code. In VS Code, currently we are in CMD. If you see this particular command, it is written as PowerShell. It means
Monal S: we need to click on… we need to open PowerShell. PowerShell is a terminal for your Windows, it uses PowerShell commands. It has different admin access, okay? So if you paste it here, press enter, you can see UV starts downloading.
Monal S: Okay? So, you Windows people, copy this, and copy it into PowerShell terminal, only PowerShell terminal, press enter, and it is… it will start downloading. You can see?
Monal S: everything's installed. UV is installed in Mephista. For Mac people, you can see for Mac people, we have curl this particular command, copy and paste.
Monal S: Copy and paste this command. We have also seen few more commands in UV.
Monal S: If you go to the UV website, if you check the installation page, you will also see that Mac is also giving you a few more options. Mac is also… this is the main option. I told you this main option, but it also gives you main option using pre-installed UV. This is in Mac.
Monal S: Okay? So either this or that way, but this is the recommended way that is in step number one. Is this part clear?
Monal S: Is this part clear to everyone?
Monal S: This is the first option, this is the second option. If in Windows, guys, if in Windows this one is not working, try with this.
Monal S: Are we clear? If in Windows this code is not working, try with B option. A option is this command, P option is widget install idstr.uv-E.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Clear. Second option, how many of you are trying the second option and it worked?
Monal S: Guys, second option, how many of you are trying and it works?
Monal S: Second option can work with PowerShell, and guys, we only have two terminals. Try with either of the terminals, CMD or PowerShell.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Not working, any other option?
Monal S: Guys, I'm repeating, for the handle time, you will not be able to see other people's chat, only I can see that.
Monal S: Okay? Or let me show you another option that I have in my system, just wait. Okay, I will show you one other option.
Monal S: Hmm… Simple one. Very simple one.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: I will open my terminal, or in the VS Code, let me do only in one place. We have VS Code. We have CMD here, PowerShell here. Let's see if WinJet will work where… Winjet. Okay, guys, VinJet is working in my CMD. Next command is… not next command. People were not able to
Monal S: Run this, the code is VINJET, W-I-N-G-E-T install UV.
Monal S: Try this. Is this working? How many of you… okay, a lot of people tried second option and it worked. Now I'm giving a third option in Windows. In Mac, you will not have any issue.
Monal S: In Mac, you will not have any issue. Guys, is this working?
Monal S: For a lot of people, first option worked, lot of people, second work.
Monal S: If one option worked, don't try another. If one option worked, don't try with another. Only one should work.
Monal S: For some of the people, third word.
Monal S: Last one is working, it means UV installed.
Monal S: Great, awesome.
Monal S: For Mac, anyone is facing issue. Guys, Mac people, anyone is facing issue, I think Mac will not have an issue.
Monal S: Mac will not have an issue. So let me also copy and paste in this TXT so that you can have it later. Don't worry, I will add that in the documentation.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: If you have any error, don't worry about it. Don't worry about it if you have any error.
Monal S: For now, skip it.
Monal S: Okay, I will check.
Monal S: I will check what is the issue in your system. And once you install it, let's look at the document now. Everyone, I'm disabling the chat.
Monal S: If your focus is always on installation, when you will learn.
Monal S: So let me close this, close this VS Code, and let's look what is there next. Step 1 is to install.
Monal S: This one will work, or this one will work, or the third option that I provided you, VinJet install UV will work.
Monal S: In macOS, we only have one command, but I also told you where the second command. Second command is, do you install UV, which is present in our Astral page documentation, UV documentation. Step 2. Okay? Step 2. Before even going to the step two, what I want is, for some people, it might not work, I want is delete
Monal S: Delete. Clear everything.
Monal S: Clear everything, and then start again.
Monal S: Go to Terminal, go to the three dots above, go to Terminal, click on New Terminal, now your terminal started.
Monal S: Now, to check if UV is present in our system or not, write U3 and press Enter.
Monal S: Guys, is this code working in your system? But I told you to delete that first thing again. Delete. There is one kill terminal here. There is one kill terminal button here. You should first kill and clear everything.
Monal S: You should first click, kill, and clear everything, then open again.
Monal S: Is it working? Guys, in other system, it is working.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: If it is working, it means UV is installed in your system.
Monal S: If you want me to repeat the kill, you can see there is a recycle pin icon here, everyone.
Monal S: There is a recycle pin icon here in your system. If you click on it, it will click the… it will kill the terminal. If you want to open again, let's suppose you have multiples. You have command prompt.
Monal S: You have another command prompt. Now the recycle bin is in a different location. If you hover over on the right side, you will see the recycle bin, or the kill. Kill everything, so that your terminal, when you try to open again, it will be a new terminal, a new session of the terminal.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Are we clear now?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Awesome.
Monal S: Guys, if UV is not recognized, it's coming. UV is not recognized. UV is not recognized.
Monal S: then I will explain you that part. Okay, just read, guys. If UV is not recognized, stay at that part, I will help you. You can see that.
Monal S: If you scroll, are you able to see this?
Monal S: Something like this.
Monal S: People who are getting error, are you getting issue like this? I already have planned everything. So, just trust me here, wait, please don't try to copy and paste, else I will disable the check.
Monal S: Yes.
Monal S: Okay, let me disable the chat.
Monal S: Okay, UV not recognized something like this. All of this are present in FAQ, you guys will be able to access this whole file. Let's go to the step two. Step 1 is installation. UV installation is done for majority of the people, people who are not able to do it.
Monal S: wait for my next instruction, I will help you later. But now understand the concept. Now, what we want is, in UV, we want to initialize some project. So what will happen? What will happen? Now that we have UV in our system, it was very, very, very simple. Now that we have UV in our system.
Monal S: What will happen in the next class?
Monal S: In the next class, Sunny Sir will come.
Monal S: Sunisa will come, and Sunisa will say, this is the… this is something which we are creating, we are writing some code, so you require Python.
Monal S: for that code to run, you require Python. But right now, we only have UV in our system. So now, let's install Python. So, then I will tell you how to create virtual environments as well. So let's focus on Python. See here? You can see…
Monal S: If you scroll a little bit below, you will see one command that is… just wait, okay, UV…
Monal S: by 10?
Monal S: Not this one.
Monal S: Just wait, guys, okay?
Monal S: I want to show you that Python command.
Monal S: Not here.
Monal S: Alright, let me add that.
Monal S: Don't wait. Okay.
Monal S: You have to use command like this.
Monal S: Let me write that command.
Monal S: You need to use UV?
Monal S: Python install. That is the command. And whatever version of Python you require, you will write in that name. 3.12. Let's suppose you want 3.12. So you will copy this command, or write it here. Not in PowerShell, guys. Don't…
Monal S: have a habit of writing things in PowerShell. You will get unnecessary error. I will delete PowerShell, now I have CMD in my Windows.
Monal S: So what I will do, using UV, I want to install Python.
Monal S: Paste it, install.
Monal S: Now what it is doing, it is installing Python in my system.
Monal S: If I want a different version of Python, if I want different version of Python, I can write Python 3.6.
Monal S: Then it will install Python 3.6.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: People who are not able to do it, please don't write any errors in the chat. We'll look at it later. But people who are able to do it.
Monal S: Is this clear?
Monal S: So now you can see, I have Python 3.1 to install in my system. I just not told that.
Monal S: If something is not working, please don't write anything.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Now, let's suppose I want Python 3.1… Python 3.6.
Monal S: I will write this command, and now you can see, okay, Python 3.6 is not available using UV. Let's try a different version, 3.8.
Monal S: See? 3.8 is working.
Monal S: 3.8 is working.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Riaz, I will tell you.
Monal S: Okay? I will tell you.
Monal S: So now, in my system, how many Pythons I have.
Monal S: In my system, how many Pythons I have, everyone focus on the concept.
Monal S: Focus on the concept.
Monal S: If I… people who are pasting the error, if I ask you the concept while I am debugging your system, if you don't answer it, I will not help you.
Monal S: Guys, this is serious.
Monal S: I'm teaching a concept, and if you guys focus on error, you will not learn. You are here to learn as well. Don't focus on software always. There are hundreds of alternatives using which we can do coding even without having a system. Now, why you're worrying about all of this error? Error, we will solve it later, okay? Don't worry. So now, using UV,
Monal S: Using UV, and the command of, and the command of UV,
Monal S: Python installed, I installed two different versions, 3.12 as well as 3.8. When I install Python, it means it also comes with VENB. So now, I'm able to do this much.
Monal S: I'm able to do Path 1, I'm able to do Path 2. I have 3.12, and then I have 3.8. Now, let's suppose I want to create a project.
Monal S: Let's suppose I want to create a project A, and for this project, now I want to use 3.12.
Monal S: Now, I want to use 3.12. So, how should I tell UV that I want to use 3.12? I don't… because if I don't tell anything, UV will pick one automatically, or one that is set. But here, we want to be specific.
Monal S: Here, we want to be specific. So, the next instruction which we will see from the documentation is, you will see something called as UVPython Pin. So, what it does, right now, I have two different Python versions hanging in my system.
Monal S: I want to tell UV, I want to tell UV that for this project A,
Monal S: I want to use 3.12.
Monal S: So it means I will… I want to pin this version of Python, and whenever I use UV command, I want only Python 3.12. Just like in WhatsApp, just like in WhatsApp, we have different chat, right? We have different chat.
Monal S: If we pin any of that chat, if we pin any of the chat, what happens? That chat gets locked on the top of the screen. Yes, you guys are familiar with the pin messages in WhatsApp?
Monal S: Everyone should.
Monal S: Very basic functionality.
Monal S: Right? We can pin it. Similar thing is, we have multiple. Think of it as, like, we have multiple versions of Python in our system. We want to tell UV that use only 3.12.
Monal S: So it means we need to pin this version of Python.
Monal S: We want to pin this version of Python. So, let's pin that version of Python first, okay? Let's pin that version of Python.
Monal S: So, I will go to the VS Code, and then here I will say.
Monal S: CLS is clear the screen, and CLEAR will work in macOS, okay? This particular command will work in macOS, this particular command will work in Windows to clear your terminal, okay? Now, if I do UV,
Monal S: UV? What is the command, guys?
Monal S: UV, Python, pin, and then the version of Python. Let's suppose I will pin something that is not present in my system. UV, Python, pin, I don't have Python 3.4. Let's print.
Monal S: Oh, it shifted it, but I don't have it. It gives you that it is pinned, but it will not work. So what we need is, we want to paint the actual version. 3.12. Press enter. Now it is shifted to the 3.12. Now, if you write where Python? Let's see.
Monal S: Okay, VRPython will not work.
Monal S: I will show you later. So, this is now painted to 3.12.
Monal S: This is what we did.
Monal S: UV?
Monal S: Python pin 3.12, will select. It will select.
Monal S: the Python I want to use.
Monal S: select Python I want to use. AB, are we clear?
Monal S: This command will select the Python I want to use across.
Monal S: I want to use across. Others?
Monal S: Great.
Monal S: Now let's look at what are the things we need.
Monal S: what other things which we can do? So, we are done with selecting the Python version that we want. Here, you can read more about it, and these are all the advanced things, but you guys can probably use this document for your future reference, okay? For your future reference.
Monal S: Alright.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Next, now that we have this UV,
Monal S: Next thing we will do is, we will create the virtual environment.
Monal S: Okay, we will create the virtual environment.
Monal S: And to create a virtual environment, we will use the command present here. Let's see, virtual environment command.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Where is it? Okay.
Monal S: Say this. There is one specific command in UV called as init. What it does, it will create a virtual environment to… from the Python version that you created, and it will also create important files which UV require. So, next step is…
Monal S: Next step is, we will create project files for UV. Let me write it here. After this, after we select it, we will create the project files.
Monal S: UV in it.
Monal S: This will do… Setup of… project files.
Monal S: It also includes V, E, and V automatically. So let's see, I'm running it.
Monal S: Here, you should be present inside the folder that you open with VS Code. So, am I inside Test Dummy? Yes, I am inside Test Dummy. I will write UV init.
Monal S: Let's see. Okay. Okay, it will not create VENB, but it will create it. I will help you with that. Okay. Are we able to see these files?
Monal S: Are we able to see these files when we do UV in it? Only people whose UV is working.
Monal S: So here you can see it added, is this the version we pinned?
Monal S: Is this the version we pinned? Yes. In Python version 5, it manages that what version of Python we are using. It also creates main.py, some other function which we can delete. So that delete main.py, we don't require it.
Monal S: I also don't require a.py for now, I will delete it. I'm clearing everything. I'm clearing everything. Then I have a.txt, I'm keeping it, because here I saw all of this. But I have Python version. I will also have this very important file called as pyproject.toml file.
Monal S: Okay? PyProject.taml file. This particular file, here what UV does, UV creates what is the name of this particular project. You can see the name is same as… the name is same as my folder, which I selected for… from the VS Code.
Monal S: That is the same name. It is creating that this particular project is version 0.1.0. It added some dummy description, which you can change anytime.
Monal S: it created that here, in this particular path, you have readme.md, you can see, and then here, for this project, it requires Python greater than or equal to 3.12, and then we have dependencies. Are we able to see in this folder any virtual environment?
Monal S: Are we able to see any virtual environment?
Monal S: No.
Monal S: No. Alright? So… UV init will only set up project files, and then when we do UV sync.
Monal S: UVSync. What UVSync will do, UVSync will read the project files. It will read that .toml file.toml. Here it is TOML file.
Monal S: it will read this TOML file, it will check what is the version of Python that we require, and then it will create the virtual environment. So using this TOML file, based on the Python, it will create it. So now, let's run that code UVSync.
Monal S: UV?
Monal S: Sync.
Monal S: clear, Now, do we have a VENV file?
Monal S: Do we have a VENV file?
Monal S: Everyone?
Monal S: we have our VENV file.
Monal S: Alright? So guys, UV Sync uses what file. Again, UV Sync uses what file.
Monal S: Answer me?
Monal S: UV Sync uses what file? TOML file. All the project dependencies. Right now, currently, the dependency is nothing. If you want to write anything, if you want to install anything, all the dependencies will get updated here automatically.
Monal S: Okay? Let's suppose you want to install NumPy. Guys, this is dummy. Let's suppose you want to install NumPy now. Now that you have VENV, let's suppose you want to install NumPy in this VENV.
Monal S: Guys, dependency means library.
Monal S: you will use UV addNumPy.
Monal S: You will use UVADNumPy. Let's do this and see the changes, everyone?
Monal S: I will do UV add numpy.
Monal S: Let's see what happens.
Monal S: It is installing NumPy, but are we also able to see that NumPy gets reflected in common file?
Monal S: Hi, everyone?
Monal S: UV automatically maintains this dependency file, so if you are working with multiple developers, all you need to do is share your TOML file so they can replicate the same thing.
Monal S: Manisha, Manish, don't do it right now. These are small things. I have only written 5-6 commands. After class, you can do it.
Monal S: Okay, Manish?
Monal S: I will help you, okay? Done.
Monal S: Is this clear? So, project.toml is the main sync file which UV uses to track things. It tracks 3.12, it tracks the dependencies, it tracks everything.
Monal S: Okay? Clear?
Monal S: If you want to remove NumPy, see this? If you want to remove NumPy, you will use UV RemoveNumPy. Press Enter. Data dependencies got removed? Guys, dependencies not present anymore, so add to add.
Monal S: Library… to your V, E, and V.
Monal S: If we do UV removeNumPy, then this one is used to?
Monal S: Remove… Library… from VENV.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: code name, you need to change. You need to delete.vnv file and change .project TOML file.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Alright. Now, guys, this is a good question, that now, let's suppose you guys want to use a different version of Python in this project. What you will do, you will delete VENV, you will delete this VENV, and delete the Python version.
Monal S: Delete the Python version. Delete everything. Delete everything. What you will do, you will pin that version of Python and do all the steps.
Monal S: You will start.
Monal S: You will pin that version of Python and do the init. Delete all the dependency files of UVLs, you might see a conflict later.
Monal S: Okay? Rajesh, you need to use Sync in order to do that, okay? Done.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: You can create it. Guys, this is better, because UV is tracking it. This is better, okay?
Monal S: Alright, now… Because, you guys, a lot of you are not familiar with Python itself.
Monal S: Which you should do, okay? Which you should do. Now, I want to run some Python file. In this folder itself, I am creating the base version that we always learn, hello world. Here, I will write print hello world.
Monal S: Print, hello world, and then save.
Monal S: Okay, print, hello, work, and then save.
Monal S: To run this, to run this.
Monal S: If I write python hello world.py.
Monal S: Okay, sorry, it is inside VENB.
Monal S: It should be outside, guys. Don't create anything inside VENB. Don't create anything, else it will be broken.
Monal S: Don't create anything inside VENB. See, I've created Hello World outside of VENB. If you want to see how it looks like in your folder, see this. This is my test dummy. I have VENV, my Hello World is present, not inside VENV, but outside, or in the main root directory of test dummy.
Monal S: Okay? Now, guys, if I write UV… if I write Python hello world, what will happen?
Monal S: What will happen?
Monal S: If my Python is installed, see this, you need to understand the actual instruction, what we have, everyone.
Monal S: That will disable it.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Learn, learn.
Monal S: Let's suppose you have installed Python from
Monal S: python.org in your system. So now your system has Python, but only one version. Let's suppose you install 3.14.
Monal S: And then, using UV, using UV, you install multiple versions of Python.
Monal S: Just like I did.
Monal S: Okay? Just like I did.
Monal S: When you write, in your terminal, when you write Python…
Monal S: hello underscore world.py. Now, this is a command. You're running this in your terminal. Now, your operating system will check, do I have this application?
Monal S: Do I have this application?
Monal S: Yes, it will use this particular Python.
Monal S: Alright, now let's suppose this particular version of Python is not… you have not installed this, just like you did now. We did not install Python from python.org. And when you write Python, let's suppose you don't have it, you don't have this now.
Monal S: Now, when you write python helloval.py, your system will say, I don't know where you have this Python.
Monal S: Your system does not know this Python. So, first thing that you need to do is, if you want to use this 3.12 of your Python, which you already pinned, UVPain Python.
Monal S: which you already pinned. First, you need to tell your system that you want to use this Python. The command is… the command is… status.
Monal S: I will show you this command.
Monal S: Which is also there in your notes.
Monal S: Okay, where is it?
Monal S: Okay… just wait, guys. If it is not here, then I will show you that.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Head is not here, so let me add it.
Monal S: Where is my VS Code? Okay, see this. Go to your VENV, go to your scripts, and click on this Act… don't click on Activate. Right-click on Activate, and copy the relative path. In Mac, you will not see that scripts, you will see a bin folder.
Monal S: Next command is… Copy this code.
Monal S: Copy this code. In macOS, you will not see this, you will see VENV, PIN, or some other folder. Guys, can you confirm? In macOS, in which folder you have this activated?
Monal S: And which folder? Okay. Gagan gave me… You have this in here.
Monal S: In macOS, it is present in…
Monal S: UV, it is present in VNV pin activate. Okay? So, for Windows people, what they will do, guys?
Monal S: See here. For Windows people, to tell your operating system that you want to use this version of Python, you need to tell that I want, from this virtual environment folder, I want to activate my Python. Copy this command.
Monal S: And paste it. In Windows. Press Enter.
Monal S: Now, in my system, even Mac people see this. In my system, are I able to see the name of the virtual environment?
Monal S: Are we able to see this?
Monal S: Guys, previously it was not there, now it is added.
Monal S: Now, this is telling my terminal that we are using the Python present inside this VENV.
Monal S: Clear. Are we clear? In Mac, this code will not work directly. You need to use
Monal S: source, and then this particular command, you need to paste in your terminal, then it will work.
Monal S: Are we clear? This is for Mac.
Monal S: Mac and Linux. Mac slash Linux, above command is… Fault?
Monal S: Windows.
Monal S: So many concepts are getting cleared? Okay, alright.
Monal S: Done?
Monal S: Are we clear why we are even running this command?
Monal S: to tell our operating system that this Python code that you want to run, which Python you mean? We want this Python. And this Python is present in…
Monal S: VENV scripts activate in Windows. Done.
Monal S: Done. Now that we activated, now if I just write, guys, to use this environment from the UV, you can write.
Monal S: UV Run. Hi, everyone?
Monal S: Because we are using duby environment.
Monal S: Command is UV run. This command is static for everything that you're running from UV. Are we clear? This command is static for everything you want to run. Now, tell me, if I want to run hellovolt.py, what is the Python command we write? Everyone write in the chat.
Monal S: Everyone writes in the chat.
Monal S: This is the last command, then I will give break. Everyone right in the chat, if I want to run hellovolt.py, what is the Python command I use? Python command I use is…
Monal S: Python?
Monal S: Hello, world.tvine!
Monal S: Is everyone familiar with this? Guys, if you're not familiar, trust me, it is very difficult for you. If you don't know how to run Python file, it is very difficult. So, as I told you.
Monal S: to use the UV environment every time we use UV Run.
Monal S: This is the Python command that we run to file.
Monal S: Now, to run the whole thing with UV, we use UV run. What you want to run with UV? You want to run python.py. Are we clear?
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Copy.
Monal S: Paste, enter. Is this working?
Monal S: So, later you will see a lot of UV commands, UV run, pip install, you will see all of this, but UV run is, it means your current working directory environment.
Monal S: So, UV run, don't get confused, because a lot of people, guys, how many of you remember Streamlit? How many of you know Streamlit?
Monal S: Streamlit is a Python application. Streamlit uses… let's suppose our file name is app.py, we are using Streamlit. Lot of people confuse this, that if I want to run Streamlit, what should I write? We should just do this.
Monal S: I'm just showing you to tell that this is how UV works.
Monal S: Don't worry about it, if you don't know Streamlit, Forget about it.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: So whatever code we were using, now we were… now we will use with UVR. That's all. That's all I have to do.
Monal S: If this is working, our UV installation is done.
Monal S: Our UV installation is done, so let me write it.
Monal S: what we did, we used this Python, we used this particular code.
Monal S: Let me copy the whole thing, paste it here for Mac and for Windows, so everything is present in a single place. And once it is activated, to run a file, once it is activated, to run a file, you will use uvrun
Monal S: Python?
Monal S: Whatever the file is. File.pui.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Nishan, there are a lot of advantages which you will see in UV, okay?
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Guys, because this environment is activated, you can directly use this Python.
Monal S: You can directly use this. It will still work, but to always get 100% surety that it will use my environment, you need to use UVRun.
Monal S: Okay? Let's suppose your VNV is not there, then it will throw an error. It means your environment is not there. So this will just give you… guys, I will give you summary, okay? I will give you summary.
Monal S: Guys, hello world.py.
Monal S: You want to see the contents of hello world.py?
Monal S: Yeah, Lokesh, I will help you. Guys, any error, I will help you. Guys, I was not speaking, that's why my voice was not audible.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: People who are pasting things in error in the chat, be ready for any of the concepts which I will ask you.
Monal S: If you're not looking at the concept, guys, coding is different from learning concepts. If you are not focusing on the concept, which I'm going to ask you in the doubt session, before even asking what is the error, then I will not help you.
Monal S: Let's see how much you are focusing in the class.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: Oh, that's great.
Monal S: Okay? So, activate command, I will paste in the chat, if you guys want, you will not be able to copy.
Monal S: Done.
Monal S: UV concept you learned, guys, UV installation is done.
Monal S: So now let's recap, everyone. Let me disable it, and then let's recap, okay? So first, let's check what we did, then I will talk about the generative AI part of it. At least we will learn something about generative AI, okay?
Monal S: So first, what we did, we did… we learned a lot of things, actually, today. We needed tools for development. One of the tools is where we will write code, that is VS Code. Next tool is…
Monal S: we need a programming language, but we've also seen that programming languages require different versions of Python that we need to manage. And the best tool that we find is UV, right? There are different versions. We can either install Python, we can install Python with Anaconda, or we can install Python with UV.
Monal S: We chose UB because UB was fast and robust.
Monal S: So, we were using Python, we were using UV to install Python. To write code, we used VS Code. We understand the difference between editor, code editor, and IDE. We are not going with IDE only because it is heavy.
Monal S: But we can always go with ID, but there is a learning curve. It is a little hard to learn. This is medium. This is very easy to learn. This is Code Editor. In the code editor, we have installed VS Code. I will tell you a few other things that you can install, but for now, our UV is there, our VS Code is there.
Monal S: Then, what we did is… We understand this part.
Monal S: Because with traditional Python, simple Python, we can only use virtual environments, VENV, as VNV is a tool using that, we can separate our project dependency folders, right? But it copies the original Python.
Monal S: So if you want to create same… if you want to create different projects with only one version of Python.
Monal S: the VENP is good.
Monal S: Bad?
Monal S: The in real world, we usually don't work with a single version of Python. We work with multiple projects. Some of them are older projects, some are new, so we require different versions. And for that, we chose UV. Using UV, we can install different versions of Python. UV will maintain different versions of Python, and using those versions of Python, we can create VENV.
Monal S: And UV creates all of this in a nice package. We don't have to learn more commands, more… more complex commands, but using UV commands, we'll be able to create virtual environments as well. Now, let's see.
Monal S: Now here, we… in my system, I installed… I showed you that I installed Python 3.12, as well as Python,
Monal S: 3.8 as well. Then…
Monal S: I, for this particular project, I only wanted to use 3.12. And to tell UV that I want only specific version of Python to be used across, it means I need to lock it. Lock means
Monal S: UVPython pin 3.12. Using this particular command, I am telling my UV that whenever I will do UV init UVSync, I mean that use this pin version of Python. You can use 3.8, but if you use 3.8 to be pinned, then whenever you do UV init UVSync, you will see 3.8 there, not 3.12.
Monal S: So, before running these commands, we need to tell UV which version of Python we want to lock for our project. I told it to lock 3.12,
Monal S: And then this selected the Python 3.12. Once I have Python 3.12 selected, then I will do UV init to create UV project files, UV files. It includes
Monal S: TOML file, it also includes few more things, like I will show you here. It includes Python version, it includes terminal file, it includes UVLock, okay? This includes UVLock.
Monal S: And UVLock is also used by UV to install things and maintain it. You can see this is version 1, this is a revision 3.
Monal S: Because we did add two files. We added the NumPy, then we removed it. So now it has three revisions. So UV continuously tracks itself using this project files of the UV. So don't delete it, else UV will not work correctly. And now that we have this project files, when we do UV sync.
Monal S: UVC command will look these files in our current folder from the… in the terminal where we are running.
Monal S: This file should be present in the same directory, then it will run, and from this TOML files and other configuration, it will create the virtual environment.
Monal S: That's right, guys.
Monal S: Okay, it will create the virtual environments.
Monal S: So now, we are not relying on just Python to create virtual environments.
Monal S: When we do UV sync, UV will use this set of files, and internally, it will create virtual environment using the current Python which we've pinned. And then done. Now we have VENV,
Monal S: We can add a few things to the VNV, to this virtual environment, using NumPy. We can remove something, you can remove the library easily, directly using UV, we don't even have to touch the pip command, okay? Guys, if you're not familiar with pip, please complete Python as soon as possible, okay? We are able to add the library using UV. And to run any file.
Monal S: to run any Python file present in your directory or your project, think of it as, like, python hello world.py, you want to run this Python file.
Monal S: But which Python? You need to tell UV that I want to use the Python which I paint. So first, you need to activate it, guys. Always make sure that you're activating it. This is also a good development, you can say, standard. When you're working with development, you need to tell all of these commands. You will learn later.
Monal S: So, we need to, in the terminal, we need to tell that we want to use this Python.
Monal S: So it means we need to activate it. In Windows, this is the command I told you how to run this command. Just copy the path of the activate file, and paste in the terminal. In Mac.
Monal S: Copy this activate path, but before it writes source. When you press enter, you will see that your operating system will now know that you want to run whatever you're running, whatever commands you're running, you want to run with this particular version of Python.
Monal S: Any Python files. If you want to run any Python files, you want to run with this particular virtual environment. And then, if your NumPy is installed, it will use that NumPy. If you have Pandas, if you have Generative AI library installed inside this VNV,
Monal S: Until this particular version is activated, you will be able to use the library installed in VENT.
Monal S: And done. The command is, once it is activated, once it is activated, to be double sure, to be double sure, we… this particular command will work alone by itself, this is 100% correct. But if we want to be 100%… 200% sure, we will attach UV run.
Monal S: So because whenever we run UV command, UV will look on those files, which it is tracking. UV is also tracking that I have VENV, so whenever we do UV run, it will say, we want to reuse this environment and run this file.
Monal S: So this is for 200% confidence that we want to use the virtual environment. This is 100% confidence.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Concept-wise, not even installation. Are we clear? Everyone means everyone. People who are facing the error also, I'm saying that, are we clear or not?
Monal S: Concept. If you know the concept, you will not face issue. Awesome.
Monal S: Alright, great. So, today's main agenda for setup, the tools is done.
Monal S: Okay? Completed.
Monal S: Completed.
Monal S: Guys, now it is industry standard to use UV because it is fast and lightweight.
Monal S: In production, we don't want to use that storage and RAM. If Anaconda is using 2GB… guys, if Anaconda is using 2GB of RAM to run in the production, and UV is using 200MB, which one is better for production?
Monal S: Which one is better for production? UV. So it's not like Anaconda is bad. Anaconda is also very powerful. You can do a lot of things easier in Anaconda.
Monal S: Again, I can see error.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Alright? So now, can we jump to introduction to Generative AI after break? Guys, after break, we will complete this, then people who are facing issue, I will solve your query.
Monal S: Okay, now let's jump to break. Yes, break for 15 minutes.
Monal S: Alright, awesome. Done.
Monal S: So… great.
Monal S: break.
Monal S: 15 minutes. Guys, 15 minutes break I will give, okay? 15 minutes break.
Monal S: We have a lot of things to cover.
Monal S: Alright, so see you guys after 15 minutes.
Monal S: And,
Monal S: Later.
Monal S: Disabling the chat, you guys, we will all be back in 15 minutes.
Monal S: Chat is disabled.
Monal S: Alright, I'm back.
Monal S: Are you guys back from your… Brunch, dinner, breakfast… Yep.
Monal S: What do you guys had?
Monal S: Water. Alright.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Roti and Saji? Au Baji. Alright.
Monal S: Go come, Sharbat.
Monal S: Awesome.
Monal S: Very light foot to avoid sleep.
Monal S: Taken dinner at 7. Alright, awesome.
Monal S: Shirk karma, alright, that is pretty heavy.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: How many of you tried debugging something?
Monal S: I had to run anyways.
Monal S: How many of you tried debugging and was able to fix it? And was able to fix it?
Monal S: Fixed. Lot of you are able to fix it. Awesome. Really awesome, guys.
Monal S: Fixed, fixed, fixed. Awesome, guys, awesome.
Monal S: Still debugging? That's great, okay?
Monal S: Guys, trust me that debugging is one of the skills that now engineers should have. This is a rare skill now. People don't even know how to debug it. Now the debug method is different, that use AI to debug as well, use your own logic, but
Monal S: If you don't debug it.
Monal S: then you are going to get… even after you learn AI, you will not be able to do anything.
Monal S: You will always use ChatGPT code.
Monal S: Sure, Vikram Jeet, I will help you, okay?
Monal S: Okay. Guys, can we first learn about Generative AI and then focus on the installation? Yes?
Monal S: Guys, if you are a beginner, a real beginner in just Python itself, if you know basics of Python, guys, please, in this weekdays, you have 5 more days. We have next class in 5, we don't have a nice day class, right?
Monal S: Does this course have Wednesday class?
Monal S: Does this course have Wednesday class? No. Okay, alright.
Monal S: So, in these 5 weekdays, anyone who is beginner, please try to complete Python till object-oriented programming as soon as possible.
Monal S: The bar here, the bracket I showed you. Okay?
Monal S: Let me disable the chat, because I'm still seeing error messages. Just wait, okay?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: All right, so let me complete today's agenda. We need to learn a lot of things, but now everything is going to be theoretical. We need to understand what generative AI is. Okay, but before that.
Monal S: I know that there are people who does not know Python yet. They will be learning that in the first week by themselves, not by us.
Monal S: So, how many of you are familiar with machine learning, deep learning? Just answer.
Monal S: If you know MLDL, write ML, DL. If you know only DL, just write DL.
Monal S: It's fine. No is also fine. That is not a prerequisite.
Monal S: Nothing?
Monal S: Guys, nothing is scary. Please, people who are saying no for anything, like Python and everything, please learn as soon as possible.
Monal S: How many of you looked at the syllabus?
Monal S: Guys, this is the syllabus. Let me disable my video. This is your syllabus.
Monal S: If you see, this course is designed for AI engineers, software technical leaders who want to transform, and you can read all of this, okay? But if I talk about prerequisite, a strong foundation in Python
Monal S: Guys, does strong mean basic?
Monal S: The strong means basic. I'm not here to…
Monal S: Demotivate you, but you have to do your work.
Monal S: To get a job.
Monal S: A strong means not basic. And basic with ML concept means
Monal S: You should know what ML is on a very high-level overview is also fine.
Monal S: You can look at Krisher's video to understand. I told you that in your dashboard you have Python, you also have ML, you can watch 2 hours of ML, that is more than enough.
Monal S: This is experience, but your mentor will be teaching you, but there are a lot of things that you need to understand, but you will be able to understand each and every… see this, this course is starting from basic. Sunny, sir, will be teaching you text, encoding, what these things are, but you need to do your homework.
Monal S: Guys, I am saying… 2 hours of ML is not enough, but it is better than nothing.
Monal S: Are we clear? It is better than nothing. So at least start somewhere.
Monal S: Everyone, start somewhere and read all of this.
Monal S: Yes, good. Shodha is saying that we'll be ready by next week. That's the attitude that you need to have, guys.
Monal S: And if you see, this course is starting from modern generative AI, it is starting from generative AI. So you should know a few things, do your homework, don't worry. Mentor responsibility is going to be there to teach you everything. Just like I was teaching you Python, but…
Monal S: This course's responsibility is not to teach you Python things. Okay, alright, that's great, Mandaru Gopal, you're able to fix UV issue. Alright? So, please complete Krisher's Python playlist, guys. Please complete Krisher's Python playlist, and complete few algorithms, at least.
Monal S: two to three algorithms, or let's say four. At least four algorithm machine learning algorithms. At least 4. Even if you don't understand 100%, make sure that you at least remember the flow of what we do in machine learning, why we do it on a very high level.
Monal S: And Python playlist, guys, you can check from the website, or you can directly search YouTube Chrysler's Python playlist, just Python playlist, you will see Krista.
Monal S: You can create Raghavir, but that is not how UV will work correctly, okay? Are we clear, everyone? I'm just setting your base before the next class. Everyone means everyone.
Monal S: You have a lot of work to do. Okay.
Monal S: Does this code cover coding skill? Yeah, it will start from the coding, but if you don't know Python, Python we are not going to cover. Okay, now let's not talk about this is, the first class. First class is already taken.
Monal S: All the expectation is already set. Now let's focus.
Monal S: Okay? Where to learn ML? Guys, Chris, a playlist for ML.
Monal S: Alright, let's get started, guys. Okay.
Monal S: Okay, everyone, focus here, and I will teach you everything in very high-level overview to understand what is generative AI. Okay? What is generative AI? So let me disable the chat, and everyone should focus on my screen.
Monal S: I will not repeat anything. This is introduction to Gen AI. I'm not teaching you concept, but just the introduction, okay?
Monal S: So, first, let's talk about what actually is AI. Okay, so let me draw this bigger circle that we have.
Monal S: And this time, I want to use this pen color. Okay.
Monal S: Okay, first thing.
Monal S: AI. So let me write a few things about AI.
Monal S: What is the goal of AI? What AI is? AI is… you can think of it as, on a very high-level overview, AIR machine.
Monal S: AI is machine programmed to exhibit human-like decision making. Now, we are able to see in 2026, we have a lot of different kinds of AI, some are good in email, some are good in text, some are good in summarizing, but it means we have a system, we have a system where we provide it a task
Monal S: Task of summary, task of whatever it is.
Monal S: Then, based on that task, it can do the decision-making just like human does, and then complete the task. So those are… AI are nothing but machines programmed to exhibit human-like decision-making. That is, AI.
Monal S: So this blue thing which you are able to see is AI.
Monal S: Okay, let me write. I will write it. Here, this is AI.
Monal S: machines programmed to exhibit human-like behavior. Now let's talk about the next part inside this. The next part is…
Monal S: Okay? Next part is, inside AI, the first thing that we will get is machine learning.
Monal S: So this green color which we were able to see, think of this as machine learning. So, machine learning is a part of AI.
Monal S: Okay? Guys, AI is not a programming language just like machine learning is not a concept. It is creation of machines that can exhibit human-like decision-making. If you can create that with machine learning, then that is also an AI. So machine learning also creates AI, deep learning also creates an AI, but AI meaning is
Monal S: decision-making like human. That capabilities is AI, okay? Now let's talk about machine learning.
Monal S: Machine learning is a system that learns patterns from the data without being explicitly programmed.
Monal S: This is the definition of machine learning. Systems that learn patterns from data. So here, data is important, data without being explicitly programmed. Now, what does this mean? Machine learning means, let's suppose you want to calculate the formula for
Monal S: Be a mic.
Monal S: person's BMI. Let me check on Google what is the BMI formula.
Monal S: BMI, formula, Okay. BMI is person's body weight in kg by height n meter squared.
Monal S: Okay? High it in middle square, and then what we do with that?
Monal S: Okay, that's it.
Monal S: Okay, this is the formula. So this formula we derived because someone has done the experimentation, someone has done the experimentation and created that. Using this, you can calculate something like a BMI. And if you want to calculate this BMI from Python.
Monal S: you will write a BMI function, you will write the logic for BMI,
Monal S: yourself, you are the one who is going to create the logic, you are going to convert this mathematics into the coding, and then you will return the output. What you are doing, you are creating your… you're writing your own logic. But in machine learning, here you will see
Monal S: without being explicitly programmed, it means you will be creating functions, but you are not the one who is going to create these formulas. Machine learning based on data. Machine learning based on data will create formulas like this by understanding the data.
Monal S: And you don't have to worry about the logic part of it. Machine learning will handle the logic. So think of it as, like, automatic creation of formula or logic systems that understand data, and from that data, they create those intelligence.
Monal S: Okay? Are we clear on machine learning, everyone?
Monal S: Are we clear on machine learning and AI?
Monal S: I'm using very simple words, and very high level, okay? Very high level. Alright, let me disable the chat.
Monal S: This is machine learning. Now, let me talk about the next part. Inside machine learning, we have something called as deep learning.
Monal S: So, deep learning is a part of machine learning itself, okay? Deep learning is a part of machine learning itself. So, if I say this is deep learning, I think this color is better, not this.
Monal S: Don't worry, I will write those arrows.
Monal S: Deep learning, it's a part of machine learning, okay? The specialization…
Monal S: of machine learning. In machine learning, we have a concept called as neural network. I will write in short, neural network. And deep learning is a specialization of neural network itself.
Monal S: This specific algorithm creates hundreds of different branches. The chat GPT that you see is kind of the very subset of neural network itself.
Monal S: Okay? So, neural network. But if I talk about deep learning definition, it is advanced machine learning utilizing multi-layer neural network, multi-layer perceptron, multi-layer neural network, whatever you call it. Okay? So, it is a part of machine learning itself.
Monal S: Alright?
Monal S: Is deep learning clear? Specialization of a particular powerful algorithm is deep learning. Not just any algorithm, but algorithm called as… what is the algorithm? Neural network series. Neural network is the name of the algorithm. It is a specialization of those algorithms.
Monal S: Okay? Neural network is an algorithm that tries to mimic, without writing the actual formula or architecture, it learns like our human brain does.
Monal S: It understands pattern, it will derive its own pattern, and gives you the output.
Monal S: That's why it is very flexible, and that flexibility makes it room for improvement. That's why we all have this chat, GPT, and other things, only because
Monal S: neural network came into existence. This is… think of it as, like, Level 1. Think of ChatGPT as level 1000.
Monal S: But if this level didn't even existed, we will never get ChatGPT.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Alright.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Now, the final thing that…
Monal S: I want to tell you on this is, inside deep learning, inside deep learning, we have a very specific
Monal S: Inside deep learning, because of some kind of problem statement, it generated a new specialization. It generated a new specialization that is called as
Monal S: Generative AI.
Monal S: Generative AI. So, generative AI, what we are doing before generative AI, let me tell you, okay? In machine learning, in machine learning, we have data, then we ask algorithms
Monal S: Then we ask algorithms to find patterns, then to ask to find patterns in the data, and create mathematical formula
Monal S: And create mathematical formula.
Monal S: Okay? Because you guys don't know about machine learning, formulas like linear regression, logistic regression, others, it means to fit the data. This is called as fit
Monal S: The data, fit the data, and then think of it as, like, fit the line.
Monal S: This is what we mean by mathematical format. Don't worry about it, okay? Don't worry about it. As I told you, deep learning is a part of machine learning, so deep learning was also doing it.
Monal S: Deep learning was also doing the same thing, but without using this kind of algorithm. Deep learning uses neural network, which is very flexible. You don't have to write the logic, you don't have to write a lot of coding. All you need to do is create some kind of an architecture where, if you pass data here, it will…
Monal S: Auto Learn.
Monal S: It will automatically learn, find pattern, it will automatically learn, and find pattern, and the goal is, again.
Monal S: Goal is, again, the word called as fit the line.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Again, it will find pattern, but the goal is, again, fit the line. Guys, on a very high-level overview, you should understand.
Monal S: Okay? Because as I told you, you guys are focusing on generative AI, this modern path. This is where majority of the jobs are here right now. But it has some backstory.
Monal S: Alright? That backstory we are learning. So, deep learning also uses that data to automatically learn from the data, it automatically derives the pattern and fills the line. So, deep learning reduces the complexity that we have in machine learning.
Monal S: complexity that we have in machine learning, that for every kind of a data, for everything, we have a separate, separate algorithm. But in neural networks, it is very powerful that for a single… a single algorithm can work with different kinds of data.
Monal S: Okay? Can work with different kinds of data because it is flexible. Now comes a issue.
Monal S: In deep learning, because of this neural network, neural networks are very data-hungry.
Monal S: It requires huge amount of data, and this neural network got famous when we had big data. It means when we had internet, when the internet started.
Monal S: It means, from the internet, now we have lots of data, collecting data from various places and others.
Monal S: and internet created a huge amount of data. Now that we have access to the huge amount of data, we can use neural networks. These are actually very old algorithms, but it only got famous… it only got famous because we have a lot of data.
Monal S: Okay? It only got famous once we have a lot of data. So neural network algorithms got famous because of that, but still, if I talk about MRI images, guys, if I talk about MRI images, do you think that hospitals will give you MRI data that easily?
Monal S: without consent of patients, everyone. Guys, this is not a technical question. No!
Monal S: They might give you 30, they might give you 100, but they will not give you millions of MRI just so that you can use it.
Monal S: Right? So now comes… now here comes the issue with, for problem statements, yes, we have plenty of data, but for specific kind of problem statement, we don't have enough data.
Monal S: We don't have enough data.
Monal S: Enough data is not required. Now, here comes a different need. The problem statement is we don't have enough data. Here comes a need. Machine learning was learning the pattern to fit the line. Deep learning, or neural network also, was learning the data, was learning the data and fitting… and fit the line.
Monal S: But here, my problem statement is not of machine learning, not of deep learning. What is the solution, guys? If you don't have enough data, solution is…
Monal S: more data. But machine learning cannot do more data. Deep learning cannot do more data. Do I have, or can I work on something that understands… can I work on something that understands 100 people MRI and can generate
Monal S: And can generate, from these handed people only, they can generate some more synthetic data.
Monal S: Real-looking synthetic data.
Monal S: Is everyone able to understand?
Monal S: Real-looking synthetic data. Why will it be real? Guys, if I'm taking 100% MRI, if it's synthetic data, I am getting a dog MRI. Is this a correct data?
Monal S: Is this a correct data?
Monal S: I want 100% MRI, but I am generating dog MRI. This does not sound good. Synthetic data means if I am using 100% data, I want to generate. Synthetic means I want to get
Monal S: Person MRI only. It should look like person.
Monal S: it should look like person. So, the data that we are generating synthetically, we are generating like the original data. So, in statistics, in machine learning, we call it as
Monal S: Distribution.
Monal S: So now we require algorithm that learns distribution of… beta.
Monal S: instead of fitting the line, this is line, this is line, curve, line, in other words, instead of fitting and understanding the pattern of data, now I want algorithms that learns the distribution of data.
Monal S: To solve what? To solve what?
Monal S: What do we want to solve?
Monal S: First, what do we want to solve? Once we understand distribution of data, we can create Synthetic data.
Monal S: Or we can do… Generation!
Monal S: When you write high in chat GPT, Does ChatGPT generates answer?
Monal S: Word by word, Yes?
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: So, here, ChatGPT generates something, it does not fit the line, it does not fit the line, just like machine learning is doing. To understand more about fit the line, that is a different thing.
Monal S: But ChatGPT generates, word by one, each word at a time. You will understand in transformers, but it will learn it. So what it is doing?
Monal S: What it is doing, it is generating. And from this word of generation, we have…
Monal S: a subset of deep learning called as generative AI.
Monal S: A kind of AI which generates something based on the distribution of data.
Monal S: Is everyone clear now?
Monal S: Guys, are we clear?
Monal S: So let me right arrow.
Monal S: Alright, great. Okay?
Monal S: What color should I use? Maybe this color.
Monal S: This is too dark.
Monal S: Let me use this.
Monal S: Last one is generative AI, then this one is deep learning, this one is machine learning, this one is AI.
Monal S: Okay? So, a kind of AI which generates new data is called as Generative AI.
Monal S: Okay? It's called as generative AI. Think of it as, like, in ChatGPT,
Monal S: In ChatGPT, you are saying you are uns… you are saying your query that generate… Image of dog.
Monal S: ChatGPT does what?
Monal S: It will generate an image, pixel by pixel.
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: Okay, sorry, I kept the wrong definition of generative AI, let me change it.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Sorry about this.
Monal S: a specialized branch of deep learning that moves beyond classification, guys, only you will understand classification in machine learning and deep learning to create entirely novel content from scratch. It is… the basis is to make on that.
Monal S: So, generate an image of a talk, you pass to ChatGPT. ChatGPT is able to generate it. ChatGPT is able to generate talk because it understands
Monal S: Distribution of dog.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: It is only able to generate dog because it understands how a dog looks like. That's why you will care at the ad an image of a dog.
Monal S: So, generation, we are generating something.
Monal S: Now, if I talk about the example, if I talk about the example of machine learning weather forecast.
Monal S: weather forecast. So, guys, based on 7 days of data, I want to know tomorrow's weather.
Monal S: Tomorrow's weather. So here, what I want to do.
Monal S: Guys, let's see. If I have 7 days of forecast, this is how human will do. This is how a human will do. Everyone, a human will do. Human will check that this is day… let's suppose tomorrow is 1.
Monal S: This is tomorrow.
Monal S: 7 days before means minus 1 day, minus 2 day, minus 3 day, minus 4 day, minus 5 day, minus 6 day.
Monal S: And minus 70.
Monal S: Is everyone able to understand this? What is minus 1, minus 2? Day minus 1, day minus 2, day minus 3.
Monal S: This is tomorrow, this is current day. So let me write… Current day as 0.
Monal S: This is today.
Monal S: I am saying, based on 7 days data, let's predict what will happen tomorrow. This is what humans will do. Humans will say, if it rained.
Monal S: If it rained yesterday, is there a high probability of raining tomorrow? Yes or no? If it rained yesterday, is it a high probability? Yes.
Monal S: So, I will give it as… okay, rain. But let's suppose from past 5 days, the temperature is 42 degrees Celsius. Now tell me, is the probability better or decreased?
Monal S: Probability of raining tomorrow increased or decreased?
Monal S: It got decreased because it was very hot. So what we are doing, we as humans are creating our own formula. We are saying that if it rained, but we will create it.
Monal S: If it rained yesterday, and all the 6 days were very hot.
Monal S: all the days were very hot, then we will say probability of raining tomorrow is low. So what we are doing, we are kind of creating our own formula. Yes or no?
Monal S: Yes or no?
Monal S: But creating of this formula is… Creation of this formula is… very hard.
Monal S: Now, what will I do? I will pass this 7 days data to machine learning, not just 7 days, I will pass a year data to my machine learning, year data to my machine learning, and I will ask machine learning to understand patterns like this.
Monal S: to learn patterns like this, and patterns in the sense… guys, what is the one time I used?
Monal S: What pattern means? Fit the line.
Monal S: Pattern means it will fit the line, think of it as, like, creation of the formula while fitting the line. And once it understands this, once machine learning is done with fit the line, now if I pass 7 days of data, my machine learning will say whether it will rain tomorrow or not.
Monal S: Do I need to write all of this logic?
Monal S: Do I need to write all of this logic? No. Machine learning will do it by itself.
Monal S: Now, here what we are doing? Learning from patterns and fit the line which gave us formula. But now, do you think
Monal S: If I pass this data to a generative AI, GAI, I will pass 7 days of data. Do you think I want to generate tomorrow's weather?
Monal S: I want to generate tomorrow's weather, or I want to predict tomorrow's weather.
Monal S: Does this problem statement make sense in generative AI?
Monal S: No!
Monal S: It is about fit the line. This is about…
Monal S: Learn the distribution. So, from machine learning, you can predict… everyone see this? From machine learning, you can predict tomorrow weather.
Monal S: But, for the same problem statement, from Generative AI, what you can do?
Monal S: generate… 7 days of weather data, consider… 7 days of past data.
Monal S: So, it will generate 7 days of synthetic data, or it will try to do it.
Monal S: But it will not predict. Predict means with certain probability. Here, we are not seeing that tomorrow is 40%, tomorrow is 100%.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Are we clear the difference between generative and predictive? So, guys, in… in… in ChatGPT,
Monal S: In ChatGPT, can you answer based on your syllabus? Based on your syllabus, can you answer what is the percentage probability?
Monal S: Using ChatGPT, if you provide your 10 years academic data, can you ask what is the exact percentage based on statistics?
Monal S: Based on statistics, That whether you will pass or fail.
Monal S: In ChatGPT, no, because the fundamental is to generate it, but using ChatGPT, can you say 10 years of data, analyze.
Monal S: pattern… And where to improve.
Monal S: Where to improve?
Monal S: Can it understands and then give you answer? Will it work now?
Monal S: Will it work now? Yes.
Monal S: So, fundamentally, fundamentally, generative AI problem statements are different than other kinds of specialization of AI.
Monal S: So, are we clear a specialization branch of deep learning that moves beyond classification, classification machine learning, to create entirely novel content from scratch?
Monal S: That's all.
Monal S: Machine learning does not have machine learning… ChatGPT does not have machine learning algorithms, guys.
Monal S: It is a different kind of architecture.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: So, our traditional systems… our traditional systems…
Monal S: Our traditional systems are called as discriminative discriminative kind of AI.
Monal S: In this data… in this data, they discriminate, they fit the line, they try to understand and separate Class A, Class B, Class C. But if I talk about… if I talk about traditional, if I talk about modern now.
Monal S: The main problem statement that we have, we have generative AI.
Monal S: Discriminative AI does what?
Monal S: fits the line by data pattern, generative AI.
Monal S: learns… Distribution, or the actual data itself.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: Or, if you don't want fit the line, I can also write one more word, just like learns distribution, but for machine learning, it means
Monal S: Learn… boundaries.
Monal S: No, it is not descriptive.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Clear. So, using traditional ML, we do things like…
Monal S: We do things like we want to do some classification. Guys, traditional ML also means deep learning part of it. We can do classification, we can do…
Monal S: prediction, okay? We can do decision making.
Monal S: Using Generative AI, G-A-I, I'm saying. Using Generative AI, what can we do, guys?
Monal S: What can we do?
Monal S: we can… We can create, or let me write, synthesize.
Monal S: synthesize… the mage… Text?
Monal S: And text also means the base is text. If it is text, means
Monal S: Code as well. That's why using ChatGPT, we can create code. We can generate audio.
Monal S: We can generate audio as well.
Monal S: Done?
Monal S: I just gave you the example, and predict means, think of it as, like, a weather forecasting.
Monal S: weather forecasting, and everyone knows the example of generative AI.
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: Everyone knows the example of generative AI.
Monal S: Clear?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Now, let me, on a high level, guys, this is, I'm not your mentor for this whole course. Guys, I'm going very fast, this is just introduction. You don't have to remember it, this is not interview. This is only about what generative AI is, that's all.
Monal S: what generative AI is, that's all. I am not giving you any concepts, these are not even concepts. I told you, just understand things from high level.
Monal S: Clear.
Monal S: Okay. Now, people are asking what is Agentic AI. Now, let's see what is Agentic AI.
Monal S: What is Agentic AI? So, guys, generative AI
Monal S: Does generative AI have understanding of the context?
Monal S: If you write something, does it understands? Yes?
Monal S: Generative AI, using generative AI, we have a skill of understanding. Now, if we have a skill of understanding, can I make… can I do decision-making as well?
Monal S: If it understands, can I do decision-making as well?
Monal S: Tell me yes or no.
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: So, if generative AI can understand what I am saying, then it can also decide what things is best based on whatever the distribution it knows. So, agentic AI is nothing but… Agentic AI is nothing but systems
Monal S: Systems that understands what you are saying, but can also perform action.
Monal S: But can also… perform action.
Monal S: Guys, if I ask in ChatGPT, if I ask in ChatGPT,
Monal S: if I ask in chat GPT to call… To call my brother.
Monal S: Does ChatGPT have this functionality?
Monal S: Does ChatGPT has this functionality? No. But, does ChatGPT understands my intent?
Monal S: Does ChatGPT understand my intent?
Monal S: Yes. So now, if you provide ChatGPT some kind of a tool, using which it can perform actions like call, it can perform actions like call. If it is an understanding, and it knows that… it knows that I have a tool.
Monal S: If ChatGPT or generative AI model, has access to tool, it can perform actions based on the understanding that makes it as agentic AI.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Understanding, plus it can act on it.
Monal S: Think of it as, like, ACT.
Monal S: It understands it, it can act it. So, if I say, create project A, I give it a description.
Monal S: to create a project. From this description, the first step is… from this description, the first step is… Understand.
Monal S: Once it understands, if we give it lots of tools, tools like, you are feel free to code in my VS Code.
Monal S: I am giving access to the VS Code.
Monal S: I am giving access to Terminal.
Monal S: I'm giving access to the output.
Monal S: So now, if…
Monal S: It has an understanding of it, and it knows also what tool, when to use, what is the output. This system will be, this system will be.
Monal S: automated.
Monal S: Let's see the definition of generative AI.
Monal S: Is this AI, is agentic AI a type of AI?
Monal S: is agentic AI the closest thing to AI? Machines programmed to exhibit human-like decision-making.
Monal S: Human-like decision-making.
Monal S: So, agentic AI is very close to what we call it as AI. Guys, AI is artificial intelligence. How many of you watched a movie called as Iron Man, where we have Jarvis?
Monal S: Jarvis is…
Monal S: kind of AI that everyone is trying to create. But if you are even able to achieve 50% of Jarvis right now, it is more than enough. But it will take a lot of time. It will take a lot of time to create AI like Jarvis. But still, now, at 2026, we have systems that can understand
Monal S: And if you provide access to tools, it can also use those tools to create automation or the decision-making of it.
Monal S: And guys, in this course, you will learn how to create your AI, how to use these tools and everything. Sunisa will be teaching you.
Monal S: Okay? That is not my job, but my job is to teach you what is generative AI. Is everyone clear on what is a generative AI?
Monal S: Thank you. Thanks, X.
Monal S: For the generative AI, Okay.
Monal S: Guys, there are a few more things, but I will just give you a timeline, okay? I will just give you a timeline of what happens, but at this stage, you will not understand it, because that is a part of deep learning, okay? That is a part of deep learning.
Monal S: So tomorrow, or the next week, Sunny, sir, is going to start with Transformers.
Monal S: Just the introduction of what is a transformer. So, transformer is an algorithm. Guys, transformers is an algorithm, but this algorithm has a backstory. We did not directly create transformers.
Monal S: First, we started in 2013 with something called as variational auto-encoders. Guys, my job is to tell you in a high-level understanding of what is going on. To learn more about it, you need to invest more, okay? In 2013, we have variational autoencoders. In short, VAE, okay? Varational auto-encoders.
Monal S: This kind of algorithm does what? It takes a huge amount of data, then compresses it to something like a point.
Monal S: Then, point, it decompress it. Think of it as, like, creating a zip. You have a folder of 5GB, you are creating a zip of it. At the end, the output will be, let's suppose.
Monal S: A small version with 2GB.
Monal S: Now, from that 2GB, if you unzip, you will get this 5GB. It means this 2GB has all the information to come… to decompress it to 5GB, yes or no?
Monal S: Yes or no?
Monal S: Yes or no? This 2GB has all the necessary information to decompress it to the original data. Variational autoencoders are those algorithms. Think of it as, like, an image. A 4K image, it can convert it to 12 across 12. Let's suppose only this many pixels.
Monal S: from all this million pixels to the small information, and from small information back to this. So the idea of VAE is to learn this
Monal S: Decomp… is to learn this compression and decompression.
Monal S: So, we can create… we can generate synthetic data. If it knows this data, if we pass this random data, it will generate a new image. Right now, we don't have to worry about it. So, this was the data that is used for decompression and compression.
Monal S: Now, in 2014, we got the next model called as GANS.
Monal S: This is the one which we compare. How many of you have seen that famous Hollywood actor, that is… that eats spaghetti, that is used to…
Monal S: kind of check how well the generative AI model is. Will Smith, yes? How many of you have seen the video of Will Smith
Monal S: Will Smith eating spaghetti.
Monal S: Eating spaghetti, it is all over the internet as well, and Instagram as well, right? Will Smith, people were starting with Will Smith a very weird video of Will Smith eating video… eating spaghetti, but now we have realistic. Well, those kind of generation got started with the introduction of cans.
Monal S: GANs are the algorithms which trains, like.
Monal S: If we provide something, these kind of algorithms tell whether whatever I am generating is true or is fake or not.
Monal S: Okay? So, it is also used for generation of images, or the generation of data. Data means data like CSV file, data like anything, data plus images. Anything. Yes, generator, discriminator. Guys, there is a reason I'm not going in-depth, because
Monal S: It is a part of different things, so please try to understand me, alright? I'm giving as much information as possible, so you know that today's class was worth it.
Monal S: Then, in 2017, we had… we had a huge leap in understanding the data, and also parallelism. Those are called as transformers.
Monal S: These are the algorithms that understood that understood data… From the context.
Monal S: And also, they were very optimized
Monal S: For computation, or you can say learning.
Monal S: Because of parallel processing.
Monal S: I know a lot of these terms of parallel processes and others, a lot of you have heard it first, but yes, BERT and GPT is also there, but I'm already… yeah.
Monal S: This is the architecture which enabled algorithms like BERT and GBT, and it was around 2017-2018 where we saw algorithms like Google was doing speech-to-text
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: is speech-to-text, other things? These are all possible because of this. Yes, there were other algorithms, but we had a huge leap in tasks like speech-to-text only because of transformers.
Monal S: And ChatGPT is one of the derivatives of transformers.
Monal S: ChatGPT is the product, but they use GPT models.
Monal S: Those are only possible because of these transformers.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Okay? So this is just a very high-level, understanding of what is generative AI, what changes we had, but guys, I will not be able to teach you in more depth, because if I teach you transformers, transformer can take 4 classes of 4 hours.
Monal S: all of this deep learning, machine learning alone, till this part. Machine learning till this… guys, I'm teaching Batch 2.
Monal S: And to understand, in depth, very depth about machine learning, it takes around 6 months.
Monal S: Then deep learning will take more 2 months, generative AI will take more 2 months, then we will jump there. But, because this is a modern path, we are supposed to use, guys, modern path means we are focused on the generative part of the AI, because this is where a lot of jobs are. People are asking to create chatbots.
Monal S: Agentic AI, Yes?
Monal S: Agentic AI and everything.
Monal S: Alright? Clear.
Monal S: Prompt engineers, and everything.
Monal S: So, guys, yes, I have taught transformers from scratch in my previous classes.
Monal S: transformer from scratch. So guys, how did you like today's session?
Monal S: How did you like today's session? Good? Only good?
Monal S: It was only good.
Monal S: Grade?
Monal S: And what scripts are stored in the induction session?
Monal S: what Krisha told in the introduction session, that always try to summarize everything in a LinkedIn post. Let me share my LinkedIn as well, so that if anyone wants to tag me in, you guys can tag me in. So always try to keep a summary in the LinkedIn, so others recruiter can see what you guys are up to.
Monal S: And guys, this is a habit that you should all do.
Monal S: So… spend too much time on setup. Guys.
Monal S: Setup is not short. Setup takes a lot of time.
Monal S: I have shared my LinkedIn URL.
Monal S: connect URL, you guys can connect, okay?
Monal S: Guys, ML playlist is there, please try to check in Krisha's YouTube playlist.
Monal S: And I'm raising a pole, please fill the poll.
Monal S: Please fill the poll.
Monal S: Okay? Write the remarks.
Monal S: Guys, I will fix your issue, don't worry, first complete this, others can drop off, and then I will talk with others who are facing issue. But guys, try to…
Monal S: Try to do things by yourself. Sunny will teach Transformers, guys, look at the syllabus, for any detail. I was a substitute for today's class, I'm not your mentor.
Monal S: Thank you, Dawal.
Monal S: I'm very much interested now, that's great, guys. You should be interested. That's great.
Monal S: All the session… all your issues with,
Monal S: setup, I will help you now, okay? Nice session, thank you guys. So, people who are done, guys, feel free to drop off. Thank you very much, Agok. Thank you.
Monal S: Feel free to drop off, and guys, this is not, what should I say?
Monal S: I'm not selling you the course, but if you guys want to learn, Python, machine learning, statistics, and other things of that part, you know where to go. Yes, I teach in Ultimate Data Science.
Monal S: From the very basic.
Monal S: Thank you, guys, thank you.
Monal S: How to join my badge? Guys, check with the sales team, check with our support team, our team, they will be able to help you, if you want to join my badge as well.
Monal S: If you don't have… no, if you don't have towers, please feel free to drop off.
Monal S: please drop off, and enjoy whatever times you have left for today, okay? Thank you very much, guys. Thank you, good night. Good night for you, but there are a lot of people here.
Monal S: And guys, please have a habit to solve your error. Even if you're getting error, use ChatGPT and AI.
Monal S: The only way to ask questions is raise the hands, and I will do one by one. Right now, there are 40… 50 people raised hands. 50 people is there. 52, 53, 54, so it might take 3-4 hours, whatever it will take, I will be here.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: 74 is there. It might take 4 hours now.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: The installation class in Ultimate Data Science happened, like, for six, six and a half hours.
Monal S: But, guys, this is happening when the prerequisite was Python itself.
Monal S: You guys are getting error when the prerequisite was Python itself.
Monal S: For people who are raising hand guides, trust me.
Monal S: I'm not saying anything, but is this a good thing?
Monal S: Others?
Monal S: Do you need to work hard or not? People who are raising head, do you… do you need to work hard or not?
Monal S: Tell me?
Monal S: Really, really hard.
Monal S: If this is happening in the first day, you guys are going into a transformer next week. Transformer next week.
Monal S: So let me first share this PDF and everything, and then we'll focus on others.
Monal S: So guys, if you can, trust me, if you really want to learn, because I will not be there in the next week, okay? Sunisa will be teaching you. If you really want to learn.
Monal S: I will also say, in every class I say in my class, that
Monal S: Unraise your hand, try to figure it out by yourself.
Monal S: Only then you will learn in this era.
Monal S: Otherwise, AI can replace you.
Monal S: Literally, AI can replace you, if you are… if you don't even try.
Monal S: If you don't know how to navigate in terminal operating system, guys, that is…
Monal S: little side, okay? But we are here to help.
Monal S: But… You also need to take some responsibility.
Monal S: Okay, files, what files I should say… I should send.
Monal S: I sh… can I send only…
Monal S: TXT file, a.txt, PDF, and all the PDFs, done.
Monal S: Yes, that is better.
Monal S: Give me a second, guys. Give me a second.
Monal S: This is a.txt.
Monal S: This is notes.
Monal S: And this is UV Master Guide.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: So guide a.txt, and this, let me zip it.
Monal S: The same will be available under your course resource section once the video is uploaded. But for now, I'm going to share the same in chat.
Monal S: Same in chat, just wait.
Monal S: Guys, trust me, this field is not hard, but if you're able to make it, you will see the advantage.
Monal S: Okay? You will see the advantage. Nothing is simple in this world.
Monal S: Nothing is simple.
Monal S: If you want simple, We can do data entry, okay?
Monal S: And then gets replaced by AI in a few months.
Monal S: Okay, let me first close the poll. Poll is done.
Monal S: Let me clear my screen, guys. I need to be a little focused here.
Monal S: This is also done, and where we have learned.traditional Academy, so that I can share…
Monal S: these things in our chat. Guys, I will also share the zip in the chat.
Monal S: Just wait.
Monal S: That thing is still sending.
Monal S: Okay? Guys, I've shared in the chat, but after the class, I will share the zip. You guys can drop off, because it is not working right now, a lot of people are trying to access it. It will not work as expected, but still, I will try to upload it.
Monal S: Where is that a zip. Okay.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: I started uploading, once it is… once it gets uploaded, you will see, else you will see it after the class. Okay? Thank you for joining us, thank you for joining others. We'll see you later. Please try to solve things by your own. Zip word, alright.
Monal S: Everyone is in line, guys, I cannot skip the line, okay? Okay.
Monal S: And others who have raised hand, if you have the same issue, like the people who are sharing screens, please try to solve it, don't wait for your chance, please try to solve it, and once it is done, unraise your hand. Okay? Okay, Shaspat is able to fix the issue, that's great. See, guys, if you try, you are able to fix the issue.
Monal S: Alright, tomas?
Monal S: Or Thomas?
Monal S: Thomas, are you there? Thank you, Kaurus, thank you.
Monal S: Thank you, thank you, Gaurav.
Monal S: Atul, issue is fixed, great. I fixed my issue, Praveen, awesome, guys, awesome. Really awesome. See, guys, you… if your, colleagues… now, these are all your colleagues, right? If your teammates, if your colleagues of this particular course is able to solve your query with… even without asking me, it means they're already ahead.
Monal S: If you want, you don't have to compete with me or yourself, you have to compete with them. Hakshat is able to solve the query without even
Monal S: me talking about it. That's great, Akshar. Everyone who's able to solve query, great. Awesome, Prince.
Monal S: Thomas?
Monal S: Cap, what is your issue?
Monal S: Thank you, guys, thank you. My issue got resolved, just added, path entry involvement Video, that's great, mining expert. Awesome, guys.
Monal S: Ashwani, as I mentioned, every one is on… one by one.
Monal S: Okay, that's almost, but Meenakshi, you're next.
Monal S: an action?
Monal S: Fix the issue.
Monal S: Arakia, sometimes the setup will take time, but we have 5 days, right? Don't worry, that part will start from scratch.
Monal S: I mean, actually?
Monal S: Guys, are you even there? Are you guys able to hear me?
Monal S: Adas, are you guys able to hear me?
Monal S: Fix the issue, ran all commands, that's great, Ramki.
Monal S: I'm not sure. People raised hand, but then they slept or something?
Monal S: So let me… None.
Monal S: U.S.
Monal S: Guru, you're next.
Monal S: Fixed the issue, had to sort out the path. Awesome, yes. Guys, your UV issue is the path issue. That solution is also there. Tushar, did you type the solution from PDF.
Monal S: Did you try the solution for PDF, Tushar?
Monal S: or from Google, any one of them is fine.
Monal S: Not from Google? Okay. Tushar is able to solve the issue from Google.
Monal S: Guys, one by one, I cannot skip the line. Guru raised the hand, but is not speaking, so Guru…
Monal S: Everyone. Sandy, Okay, Dhruv, I will help you. Dhruv, Sandy.
Monal S: Sandy?
Monal S: Guys, what is going on?
Monal S: Are you even there in the chat?
Monal S: Tangar issue is resolved. Guys, try to copy and paste the error in Google, and try to solve it.
Monal S: Okay? In the meantime, I'm solving others. If you're able to do it, that is more than enough. You guys can drop off fast. Guys, I'm unmuting one by one. One by one, I'm unmuting.
Monal S: Sandy, others, Solvik.
Monal S: Hey, Savik, you're audible. Yes.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, first of all, thank you for the session, it is brilliant.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, my… actually, I was the Python practitioner, and VS Code was already installed, and Conda is also already installed.
Monal S: It's fine, it's fine.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: And usually, you just want to… that dependency part I like the most, okay? Yeah, that is seamless, right? toml thing.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: It's great when the project is there, so I do want to do it. Now, the problem is, right now, just want to confirm the issue. I have.
Monal S: Sure, sure.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So the issue is that, can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, let me add… promote you to panelist, and join as a panelist, and then share the screen.
Monal S: Everyone, anyone who has issue… able to solve the issue, Pankaj, that's awesome.
Monal S: Guys, please try to solve the issue as soon as possible, so that you can also drop off.
Monal S: I'm here.
Monal S: That's it.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, so let me share my screen. Yes. So, probably this is because.
Monal S: You were in PowerShell?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, I'm in PowerShell.
Monal S: starting with Vinjet, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I have in… both I have tried. Now, the…
Monal S: ride with widget installed UV?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: This is the.
Monal S: No, no, simple. The third command, third command, have you tried?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Which one?
Monal S: VinJet install UV, VinJet install UV.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Egypt…
Monal S: install QV.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, strong.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I have Conda, no problem in that, right? Already?
Monal S: Yeah, no problem. See, I personally use Conda, okay? I like Conda, because it has global environment access, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, so, it is also giving the problem. Might be because of this SSL.
Monal S: Can you show me? Yeah. Okay, can you open the PDF I shared? Do you have that PDF?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, of course, I heard it.
Monal S: Can you open that PDF?
Monal S: It is in the FAQ, that is the solution.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, one word.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: But yeah, this… Can you see?
Monal S: Yeah, can you go to the FAQ section? And also, Balaji, saying that, can you open… okay, first, let's try this. Let's try this.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Is it because of Windows… is it because of Windows 8?
Monal S: Are you having Windows 8?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: In this laptop, I have Windows 8.
Monal S: I'm not sure whether it is supported or not, because the installation also says Windows 10 and 11.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that is… that was my question, actually.
Monal S: Maybe, can you try to run PowerShell from administrator, and then try? Can you, in terminal, can you in terminal, write PowerShell?
Monal S: And not terminal, not terminal, in your search bar, right terminal, right, PowerShell? No, he's not here. Just search, click on search.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Click on search, okay?
Monal S: Now, type PowerShell.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Potion?
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, right-click on PowerShell, right-click on PowerShell.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Right?
Monal S: right-click on PowerShell, now run as administrator, run as administrator.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yep.
Monal S: Now, can you here try VinZet install UV?
Monal S: Thank you, thank you, Bandaroo.
Monal S: Presenter.
Monal S: Oh, this one is not working. So, this is again… this time, the term widget… oh, you don't have widget in your system. Can you see?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Your wind rate is not there.
Monal S: But I wasn't working, N…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Will the first command work? Like, the PowerShell minus execution.
Monal S: Yeah, can you try that? Can you try that? Now try that, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Let me just copy it.
Monal S: Or you can copy from the PDF, it does not work, okay? Now run this…
Monal S: I think there is a space there at the start. Let's see.
Monal S: The request could not… okay, SSL, TSL. Now, can you check that error, or the PDF where I have SSL issue? Can you write that? Thanks, Ridham.
Monal S: No, in the PDF, in the PDF, can you check?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I'm there.
Monal S: You have a lot of things, right? That's why you're confused.
Monal S: Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Wonderful.
Monal S: Can you write in SSL, you can see in Windows, can you write, set, copy the first resolution?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: One minute, data cell is true?
Monal S: Second, it's a second issue, and there are sec…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, as I said, certificate error.
Monal S: Yeah, right, copy the, copy the command, set UV native equals to true.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
Monal S: And paste it in things like, Your terminal.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: The…
Monal S: Right, in PowerShell?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: shouldn't…
Monal S: Try with, yeah, try with PowerShell. In a VS Code only, you have VS Code only. Try with VS Code. In a PowerShell, the same terminal.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, this one, this one. Can you clear everything? Just write CLS?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hey, Eric.
Monal S: Let's create everything, okay. Now, do this command.
Monal S: Yep.
Monal S: Press Enter. Now run the command, press up arrow.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Presa, pero?
Monal S: Yeah, up arrow again.
Monal S: A barrel game? Yeah. Okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah.
Monal S: Now, let's try this one. Bridget is not here in the system, because I am not sure whether it is okay. Now try the PowerShell up arrow.
Monal S: Presa pero malt.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Do you see that? I am copying it and swap in my…
Monal S: So, if you press up arrow, it will show you the previous amount you've returned.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, got it.
Monal S: Okay, press enter.
Monal S: Okay, hmm… So, see, I don't recommend Windows 8 as well, but let me check.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah. But if it doesn't work, also, that's fine, because next.
Monal S: Say, I will not suggest Windows, because the libraries that you're going to also install, they will… you will not have support to a lot of things as well.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, I know, I know, no, so that is the… point.
Monal S: Well, next door.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: My laptop is coming, it's a high.
Monal S: Then do it, do installation later. It will work 100%, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
Monal S: It's not.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: No!
Monal S: Yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: one week I am doing with Conda, then.
Monal S: Awesome, awesome. See, personally, if you have Conda, you don't even require… from Conda also, you can create folder-level VNV.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Hmm, okay.
Monal S: you're using contacts.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, I know. I have gone through the previous course.
Monal S: So you don't… if you have this, for this whole course, you are already set up, okay? You will not face any issue. But if someone… if Sunny Cell will sometimes try to use UV, that part will change, but you know how to activate content, install things, then…
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah. So, next week, I will be installing UV in my new machine, so if I
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I will try all the things, first from.
Monal S: Yes, see, someone also said that they restarted the laptop and ran the UV install, and it works. Okay, so maybe you can try, but check it, yeah.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: My second question, the last question I have. So, I have gone through the previous courses, videos as well. So, the previous courses, like, last year you have a NLP generative AI code.
Monal S: Oh, okay, okay, okay.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: that access.
Monal S: I think this course and that course has overlap, kind of, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, so the… just… just one thing, I have, literally gone through till the transformer, okay?
Monal S: Wow.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So now, my question is that, because I had a project in my office, so I need to learn it first. So, my point is that whether the same flow will go on, like, in that context…
Monal S: flow. It is different, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay.
Monal S: See, there, you started from NLP to trans… here, you don't have that basics of NLP.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: basics, right.
Monal S: Yes, you will learn that, but with respect to transform, whatever is required, you will start from there. It is more about training, creating architectures, fine-tuning the LLMs, and all of these things, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Okay, thank you, thank you, thank you very much.
Monal S: Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Monal S: Alright, so… Chandra?
chandra: Yeah, hi more.
Monal S: Chandra. Hi, Chandra, how are you?
chandra: Yeah, fine, thank you. Thanks for today's session, Marl, it was really good.
Monal S: Thank you. Yeah.
chandra: So, I have four questions, maybe one is, sort of…
chandra: Regarding the setup of GitHub account, do we do today, or would it be…
Monal S: So that part mentor will be showing you when he's doing the GitHub part, but GitHub is, like, a few installations, 2-3 lines of code, and GitHub will be done. Okay? But GitHub requires, if you don't know the understand… GitHub also requires understanding of Git, right? Git Push, Git Origin, and all of those things. That's not a part of today's class.
Monal S: Okay.
chandra: Okay.
Monal S: Yep.
chandra: And the other one is, I'm getting, issue… can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, yes, even she, yes, please.
Monal S: Sure, guys, I will help you every… I will help everyone, okay?
Monal S: Nagesh, outside of VS also, it is the same terminal.
Monal S: VS Code terminal and the outside terminal is sync. Yes.
Monal S: Can you share your screen? Yeah.
chandra: Alright, so when I do the activate, I'm getting this, buffer.
Monal S: Okay. Because you're doing it in PowerShell.
Monal S: See this?
chandra: Yeah, oh…
Monal S: do it in CMD.
Monal S: Okay.
chandra: Okay, and when I run the… see, I already have it, I was going through the 8 planner, one of the TSMAX,
chandra: other project YouTube videos.
chandra: I was… I did set it up with 3.14 earlier, okay? Now, when I tried to do this 3.12, it says 3.12 is not compatible, because the version in the requirements, the Python version is set it to 3.14.
Monal S: Yes, yes. You need to do UVPython install 3.12, then pin 3.12, then use it.
Monal S: Are you getting my point? First, install… Where is it?
Monal S: But you… did you pin 3.12?
chandra: No, that's why I'm getting this error. When I try to pin 3.12.
Monal S: No, no, can you please scroll? Because I'm not able to see that screen, that, code is hidden in my… yeah, scroll above. Okay, UV pin Python, it is incompatible. Why it is incompatible? Because before pinning, you created the, UV files.
Monal S: Are you getting my point? Delete everything that is present in this folder except hello world.py. Delete everything, Ctrl-A.
chandra: Okay.
Monal S: Click on CTRL-A. Now, click on Hello World, click on Hello World.
chandra: Yeah.
Monal S: Now, press delete button. Press delete button.
Monal S: Yes, move to the cycle group.
Monal S: Okay. Now, can you try to do, open first CMT, don't work in PowerShell. Okay? Okay, yeah. OpenCMD? Sure, guys, thank you. Thank you, you can drop off.
Monal S: It is incompatible, because you are saying that I pinned 3.12, but this project has 3.14. Now do… now do UVPython pin 3.12.
Monal S: Guys, if you're compatible with Conta, you can probably run the whole course with just Conda. I personally do project development in Conta, but if you want UV, you can do it. Try to figure out UV out.
Monal S: UV?
Monal S: Bye, 10?
Monal S: Ben… There is a… okay, done.
chandra: Yeah, okay, yeah.
Monal S: Now, you can see your Python version is 3.12. Now, can you do UV init?
Monal S: That's awesome, Mithul. That's great.
Monal S: UV, UV.
Monal S: It's fine.
Monal S: See, your UV is working here, you don't even have to install it. Oh, you were getting a different error, sorry, I got confused. Now, if you do UV sync, it will work.
Monal S: Yes, Markee?
chandra: Yeah, okay.
Monal S: Alright, sure.
chandra: Why do we use that activate? Is it something similar to the Conda Activate?
Monal S: Activate, as I told you, yes, it is the same thing. See, Activate is not just about UV. Activate is whenever you use VENV. I told you, right, that when we install Python in system, Python has its own lib folder. But when we do VENV, Venv also has its own lib folder, yes?
chandra: Yeah, okay.
Monal S: But what do you want to tell from the terminal? Terminal is a tool using which you communicate with operating system.
Monal S: How operating system will know that what version of Python you want to use, you need to activate it, and then run the terminal.
chandra: Okay, so for…
Monal S: do it?
chandra: Yeah, for every virtual environment, we need to make sure.
Monal S: Activated.
chandra: it, and…
Monal S: Yep, yep, yep, yep.
chandra: I couldn't.
Monal S: Don't activate it, if you use uvrun command, UV will automatically look the VNV folder in the same directory and will use that Python. But the safer side is activate, and then also use UV run.
Monal S: Always the safer side, okay?
chandra: Okay.
Monal S: Yep.
chandra: One general question, let's say for today, we are using 3.12 version, and down the line, we have completed it after maybe a year. We have come back and we wanted to change the version.
chandra: Is it possible, can we just become.
Monal S: It is possible in UV, you need to learn more commands of UV, but usually what happens, we usually rarely update… we rarely update the Python version, because there are other dependencies. Python 3.1, let's suppose you're using Pandas 2.3.2.
Monal S: Then you also have a dependent library of NumPy 1.16. So if you change it, some things might also change.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: So, you need to first understand that conflict issue and other things also happens in libraries. So, we need to be very careful when we work with different libraries, okay?
chandra: Okay.
Monal S: You can do it, you can easily do it, but I will not suggest to do it that easily. You have to do a lot of things, planning, okay?
chandra: Okay. Thank you. Yeah, thank you, thank you.
Monal S: Thanks, yep.
Monal S: So…
Monal S: People are saying, guys, Manish, I will connect with each and every one line by line, okay? One by one.
Monal S: Rewand?
Monal S: Raven?
Monal S: Arivant?
Revanth Sai: Yeah.
Monal S: Hello.
Revanth Sai: Yeah, actually, my doubt is regarding the config of laptop. So, I'm planning to take, like, M4 with, 24GB RAM and, 512, is that fine?
Monal S: That is more than fine, okay? That will work. That will work. You're planning to buy M5, right?
Revanth Sai: M4.
Monal S: M4. M4 is… see, I have M4, okay? You have M4. M4 will work. That is… that will work more than enough. You will not require anything, okay?
Revanth Sai: Oh, oh yeah, thank you.
Monal S: Sure, yeah, yo.
Monal S: Alright, and next is… guys, if you're done, please unraise your hand. Thank you. Dipti.
Monal S: After setting path variable, it works. That's great, Shiva. Awesome. That path variable is the point that I want all of you to try by yourself, if you're about to do it.
Monal S: What is my system configuration? I have… Let me see…
Monal S: Because I don't have Mac. I have Mac there, but I have… 32GB of RAM, RTX 4070, And,
Monal S: CPU or CPU I have?
Monal S: I have AMD Ryzen 9.
Monal S: AAA games, guys. Okay.
Monal S: Don't… don't buy an expensive PC if you don't want to play games. Hey, Ripti!
Deepti: Hey, yeah, thanks for today's session.
Monal S: I hate it.
Deepti: Okay, it was amazing, too. So, I have just a general question that, like, when we are actually doing the projects in the industry, right? So, are we actually follow the same, kind of, like, using the VS Code, and from, you.
Monal S: Yes.
Deepti: Arconda.
Monal S: See, either we use UV, or we use VENV, or quanta. Anything is fine, but that is production. These are the tools, we don't have any other tools for production. These are the same thing.
Monal S: But a lot of the times, if you want systems to be very lightweight, we don't even use UV. We use Python, and then VENV. See, once we are… once we know the exact requirement, let's suppose from UV, you're working with 10 different projects. 3.12, 3.14, 3.6.
Monal S: But for a particular project, you've decided that I will work with 3.6. Is your Python decided? Yes.
Monal S: In production, you only run one application at a time in the Docker. So there, you will install Python only 3.6.
Monal S: So you don't require UV if you know what Python you are using.
Monal S: Okay.
Deepti: Okay,
Monal S: So, based on the flow, we decide all of these things, yeah.
Deepti: Okay, so once we actually pin the UV version for any project, how can we degrade or upgrade? Kind of like, if we… I just want to use the light version, like, if you go higher versions, automatically, like, there is some update, so that's why we are going to higher update.
Deepti: But I don't need that, and if I want to degrade any version of that project, or, like, update, how can we do that?
Monal S: See, we have Python version in our file, right?
Deepti: Okay?
Monal S: So, when we change the Python version, we have to run something called as UVSync again. So, UV lock, we will run first, and lock also, if you see, let me show you that.
Monal S: Are you able to see my screen?
Deepti: Yes.
Monal S: Okay? Let me first deactivate whatever I can.
Monal S: Here, I have Python version 3.2. If I change it to 3.6 now, and save it.
Monal S: And you can see this UV lock it is currently using.
Monal S: 3.12. So, I will use UV lock.
Monal S: Okay, just wait. Okay. UV is saying that I don't have Python, UV does not have 3.6, so let me change it to something like 3.8.
Monal S: Or 3.9, alright?
Monal S: I change to 3.9, then I will run a command of UVLock.
Monal S: You'll be locked.
Monal S: Then what you will see, UV is trying to download 3.9. Once it does, it will change this file. Let's wait, let's see.
Monal S: Thanks, Madhu. Thank you.
Monal S: Guys, don't buy GP for training, you'll use Cloud. It is saying that the Python request resolved to 3.9, which is incompatible with project requirement. Where is our project requirement?
Monal S: It is.
Deepti: See you later. Yep.
Monal S: This is Python version, so we will also change…
Monal S: at 3.9, then let's run UVLog. Is it changed?
Monal S: Is it working now? Okay. So you need to change the version. Now, if you do, now see, in VENV, we still have Python 3.12. So what we need to do? Now, we need to sync it, sync it based on our UV files. If I do UV sync, now you can see, it changed all of this.
Deepti: Okay.
Monal S: Clear? We can do it, but I always suggest to not do it after you did a lot of coding, because you will have dependencies.
Monal S: Okay? Dependencies library version works differently with what Python version that you have. So, at the start itself, we decide what you want to do.
Deepti: Okay. Okay. So, like, when we update, then all those dependencies will be, like, reinitialized, and it will be null.
Monal S: And it might break as well, because based on this Python version, it will not, again, change the dependencies. That part happens in Conda. Conda is that package manager. Where you install something in Conda, it will check if that version is compatible with others or not, but it will not happen in UV. So, everything is different, pros and cons, right?
Deepti: Vegas.
Monal S: here, you will not… it not happen. But if you want specifically that, then you can probably use Conda, or even try… maybe UV will get that update as well, that if you change Python, it might change other dependencies based in Python, right? But Conda does it. Conda does it by default, okay?
Deepti: Okay, okay.
Monal S: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Deepti: Thanks, bye.
Monal S: Thank you. Thanks, Athene.
Monal S: Alright, done.
Monal S: And then, next, we have Karthik. Hey, Karthik!
Monal S: Hello guys, hello, I'm doing one by one, okay?
Karthik R: Sorry, I logged in with my, with my husband's name.
Monal S: Hey, baby, I guess.
Karthik R: Yeah, yeah, hi. Can I share my screen now?
Monal S: How true?
Monal S: I am promoting it to panelists, then you will be able to see, okay?
Monal S: Join as a panelist.
Monal S: Kishita, maybe try.
Karthik R: Small and just shed and boom.
Karthik R: Let me know if it is visible.
Monal S: Hmm?
Monal S: Yeah, it is visible.
Karthik R: So, what has happened here is in PowerShell, I created this test dummy.
Karthik R: Then in PowerShell, I just typed this command. It is saying that it is installed, okay?
Monal S: is installed.
Karthik R: Honestly, if… But if I just, give any other command, it's not recognizing that.
Monal S: Can you show me?
Monal S: PIP will not work. Tip is not a command.
Karthik R: You asked to…
Monal S: Can you write just UV? Can you just write UV? Press U… write UV…
Karthik R: Probably shouldn't see it.
Monal S: try in PowerShell.
Monal S: Okay, it is not working, it is not able to recognize.
Karthik R: This is what we should know.
Monal S: So, can you close PowerShell?
Karthik R: Oh my god.
Monal S: Okay. Can you close PowerShell? Close it? Yeah. Yes? Now close CMD as well?
Monal S: Now, reopen the terminal, reopen the terminal.
Karthik R: Canadian.
Monal S: Go to that three dots in…
Karthik R: Oh, weird.
Monal S: the top part.
Monal S: On the terminal? It's fine.
Karthik R: Thanks, man. Take your time.
Monal S: Okay, can you see terminal on the left side? A terminal keyword is written.
Monal S: We have file, edit, selection, view, go, run, we have terminal as well.
Karthik R: Yeah, here, radius, yes. Yeah, yes. New terminal.
Monal S: Yeah, can I write UV now?
Monal S: Can an ideal be?
Karthik R: Moving? No.
Monal S: Okay. Can you, restart VS Code as well? Sometimes it creates an issue. Can you close the VS Code and open again?
Monal S: Close the VS Code. Close the VS Code.
Karthik R: Okay, this one in silver, okay.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, close the VS Core.
Karthik R: Yep.
Monal S: Can you try now?
Monal S: Else, we will do some different resolution.
Monal S: In the terminal, write UV.
Monal S: can be?
Monal S: No, I don't do this concept.
Monal S: Wait, what?
Karthik R: I don't know what happened, I just hit UV.
Monal S: No, can you click on PowerShell? Click on PowerShell tab.
Karthik R: Okay.
Karthik R: So…
Monal S: Can you… Okay, you might… you by mistake clicked on something else.
Monal S: Just type UV, okay, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine.
Monal S: Close PowerShell that you're able to see on the right side. Close everything.
Monal S: Close everything that you're able to see.
Monal S: On the right side.
Karthik R: Boom.
Monal S: The test bin button is there, right?
Karthik R: Okay.
Karthik R: Yeah, I closed sheep.
Monal S: Open the terminal? No, no, no. If you close from cross, it will not work. Click on just wait. Okay, just wait.
Karthik R: No, I… yeah, I get the… okay.
Monal S: You did UVPython install, it means Python is working, UV is working.
Monal S: Now it will… it is working.
Karthik R: Okay.
Karthik R: I…
Monal S: What do you have on…
Karthik R: tools.
Monal S: You already have Anaconda? It's fine, and see, Anaconda is… Anaconda is also there, but if SunnyServe will use UV, then you might… you might be like, what is going on? And if you're… if you're a good, you can say, a pro user in Anaconda, then you would not require UV.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Say, for some reason the system is taking time, can you open a new, terminal?
Karthik R: Yeah. Okay.
Monal S: When you open a new terminal.
Monal S: the plus button. The plus button in your terminal is there, right?
Monal S: Yeah. Now write UV. Let's see if UV is present. Type UV.
Monal S: Okay, it is working, so restarting the VS folder was your fix, okay?
Karthik R: Oh, okay, okay.
Monal S: All right.
Karthik R: So now I can…
Monal S: Yeah, you can, you can, you can follow the, follow the lectures.
Karthik R: comments, right?
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, you can execute.
Karthik R: Okay, with the command.
Karthik R: Okay.
Monal S: Yes, yes.
Karthik R: Let me…
Monal S: Alright.
Karthik R: Thank you.
Monal S: Sure, yeah, thank you.
Monal S: All right. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Thank you.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Satish. Satish, you're next.
Monal S: Guys, if it is not working, please try to restart the VS Code and see if it still works or not. People who are getting UV not recognized, try to restart the VS Code in the meantime, because you might be at the last of this hand-raised
Monal S: sequence, maybe try to restart your system. Sometimes all of these weird fixes, weird things fixes the issue.
Monal S: Saty's an idea.
Monal S: Oh, that's great, Sovik.
Monal S: We got great system. Ultra 9 processor.
Monal S: I, nine.
Monal S: Satish?
Monal S: Guys, let's try to close this as soon as possible. It is already 11.23 PM here, okay?
Satish Kumar S: Like, can you… can you able to add me?
Monal S: Yes, yes, Satish, I'm able to hear.
Satish Kumar S: Yeah, actually, I mean, the last.
Monal S: It's fine.
Satish Kumar S: One guy asked, right? So, I just restarted the VS Code, and it got installed.
Monal S: Oh, awesome, awesome, Satish, that's great. Yeah, great.
Satish Kumar S: Yeah, thank you, Ansel.
Monal S: Thank you. No, no, sir, this is totally fine, it's totally fine.
Monal S: Yeah, everyone has a… yeah, thanks, Adish, thank you.
Monal S: Guys, everyone has a small cushion, okay? We need to wait for our turn.
Monal S: That is the only way I will be able to handle everyone, okay? Try to understand. Don't worry, you will be here. And Neha, you are last second, so…
Monal S: That's weird.
Monal S: Manas Sweeney?
Monal S: As the name? Malas for me?
Monal S: Are you there? Sir, I have a laptop with 8GB of RAM? Yes, hello.
Manaswini: Hey, hi, this is Narendra. Actually, this is my daughter.
Monal S: I hate it.
Manaswini: Yeah, I'm able to fix it, but, I have a doubt, but I am not able to see where exactly in my machine it is, but when I typed U, it is… it worked. Maybe.
Monal S: They're spending.
Manaswini: It's my part to explore more.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, don't worry about it, yeah.
Manaswini: Thank you.
Monal S: Thank you, Madison. Thank you.
Monal S: Great, guys, great.
Monal S: You guys are able to solve your queries that will give you confidence.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Thank you very much, Savik. Thank you.
Monal S: Manish?
Monal S: Let me show you there. Manish was trying to ask a query from long. Manish?
Monal S: You slept.
Manish Keshari: Hello?
Monal S: Maria? Hey, Manish.
Manish Keshari: Aloha, sir.
Monal S: Hello, good.
Manish Keshari: Well, thank you so much for amazing classes.
Manish Keshari: Yeah. So, actually, yeah, just, I'll let you know, actually, I installed successfully, and now, just, I restarted my, like, BS score, so now it is working fine.
Monal S: Oh, awesome, awesome.
Manish Keshari: See, I have one query regarding the same.
Manish Keshari: the, actually, it is showing… the path is, like, see user admin.
Manish Keshari: Okay.
Manish Keshari: So…
Monal S: Yes.
Manish Keshari: Wanted to know…
Monal S: Your admin is your user.
Manish Keshari: Okay, so suppose if I'm opening this, path, so I think it should be available, correct?
Monal S: Yeah, it will be available.
Manish Keshari: Wait, let me… should you just say Yujar. See, Yujar?
Manish Keshari: Jour.
Manish Keshari: Can I share my skin and…
Monal S: Yes, yes.
Manish Keshari: Might be I can hear something.
Manish Keshari: Yeah.
Monal S: Yeah, every path is there. I will tell you how to go through that path.
Manish Keshari: That's what I'm saying about the skin.
Monal S: Ashish, make sure that your terminal also has the same address where your files are.
Monal S: Okay, can you try?
Manish Keshari: I hope my skinny visual to you.
Monal S: Your screen is visible, but can you show me… Yeah, yeah.
Manish Keshari: See, like, the path is CU admin, so…
Monal S: After that, where is it?
Monal S: Now, what is a full path?
Manish Keshari: What is the full.
Monal S: You told me, right, that it is in the user side domain?
Manish Keshari: Yeah.
Manish Keshari: So…
Monal S: Ben?
Manish Keshari: Then, just I wanted to know where UV is installed. Yes, I want to see.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Can you, unhide your folders, if possible?
Manish Keshari: Yeah, I thank you too, Gene.
Monal S: you will see one app data. Can you click on view? Can you click on View? In the same page, you have View.
Monal S: You have last show, show, show.
Monal S: Then, do hidden items. You will see one folder called as App Data.
Monal S: Are you able to see app data now?
Manish Keshari: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Monal S: Inside app data, inside roaming, inside Python.
Monal S: Inside roaming, inside Python.
Monal S: Python, you can see this? Yeah. It's inside. Now, here, this is where your, Python 3.14 is installed. Okay, via UV.
Manish Keshari: Okay.
Manish Keshari: So, okay, so… so, I have one query, like, suppose I am, working in the folder 3E. Suppose I have other… another, like, folder structure like E. So, if I… I am creating the folder into E for Python, so will it work?
Monal S: Yeah, it will work.
Monal S: UB is global…
Manish Keshari: only to be.
Monal S: global across your… QV is global across your local system, okay?
Manish Keshari: Okay, okay, okay. So using…
Monal S: You can create wherever you want.
Manish Keshari: And, it means key, if we are getting, suppose, 2 to 3 projects, or any new project, so now we don't need to install the UV now, correct?
Monal S: No.
Monal S: That is a one type, that is only one type.
Manish Keshari: 31 time, okay, thank you.
Monal S: Thank you so much.
Manish Keshari: Okay, thank you so much for your support.
Monal S: Thanks. Thanks, Manish.
Manish Keshari: Yeah.
Monal S: Alright, then… Next is…
Monal S: Hello? Parasia?
Monal S: Sorry, if I'm pronouncing it wrong.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: You did good.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So, can I share my screen quickly?
Monal S: Yes, you can share your screen.
Monal S: And I'm promoting it to Panelist.
Monal S: Yes, Akshar, sometimes it stalls in multiple places.
Monal S: Okay, thank you, Saeed, thank you.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: And let me know once you can see your screen. I think I almost have, but I responded to… are you able to see my screen?
Monal S: Yes, yes.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, so, initially I have Python 0.9, after that I upgrade it to 12,
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: 3.1, and then I did that lock.
Monal S: Okay.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So… Basically, in the environment file, how I could… I would verify question.
Monal S: UV sync. First, do UV sync.
Monal S: Is it showing you…
Monal S: Okay, nothing is synced, nothing to be synced, right? And if you want to see, type UVPython.
Monal S: Now type UV.
Monal S: Run Python. UV run Python, sorry, UV run Python. Just type it.
Monal S: Is it the same version?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: It's say it's showing the 3 pint, 12 pint, 13.
Monal S: Yes, is this the version you wanted?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Oh, yeah, yeah, mostly.
Monal S: And then, this is what you want. If you want to exit from here, just write EXIT.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Right, bye.
Monal S: Society, and then brackets. Brackets.
Monal S: EXIT, that basically…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: It's Rebecca.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, bracket. The same code is there, right? Open and close bracket.
Monal S: Thank you, Swapik. I will accept everyone.
Monal S: Yes, hold on. Yep.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So now,
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, one more thing. So basically here it's showing UV.Lock is 3.9, greater than it should be fine, right?
Monal S: Yeah, it is fine, but 3.12 is also greater than that, right?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Right, right.
Monal S: requirement says exact requirements in Pyth requirements in Python-version. Can you check Python-version?
Monal S: the file.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, 3.
Monal S: See, here it is the exact version. But there, is it satisfying greater than 3.9?
Monal S: Yes.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, okay.
Monal S: You're getting my point? Okay.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Monal S: Write exact everywhere. Yeah, yeah, write exact everywhere if you want, okay?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, so it means we manually need to command edit here?
Monal S: No, change it, yes, yes, yes, now it will work. Now if you do it…
Monal S: And do that in the project as well, then…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: No, sir.
Monal S: Yes, yes.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Wait a minute for another.
Monal S: Yeah, yes. Now, if you do run UV lock, UV lock and UV sync, it will work, okay?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: You beat me. Oh, wow.
Monal S: UV space lock, UV, UV, yeah, UV space lock. It will log, and then now do UV sync.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, everything, when you do some changes, you should sync it, okay?
Monal S: Yeah, you should sync it, now do… okay, sync is already there. See, 3.12 was already there in your system, it was already pinned, right?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, yeah, I pinned already.
Monal S: So, there was nothing to change. You only changed the project file which you are going to share with others. So now your system is consistent across, okay?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, and basically, now let's take, if I do, UV run hello world.py, right?
Monal S: We run python hellobal.py.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, I don't see this command being printed, I mean, help BYE, so…
Monal S: Because there is no code written inside your file.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: No, I just put that hello world.
Monal S: You just put Hello World?
Monal S: Then, let's see why it is not…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Whereas, from here, if I do main.py, it is able… I'm able to print. I don't know what is this.
Monal S: Just a bit, and let's see.
Monal S: Did you save the file? Yes. Did you save the hello world.py? Can you save this file? No, this is not saved.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: It's not by default here.
Monal S: No, you need to automate… you need to go to the settings of VS Code. Can you save this file?
Monal S: Save this file. No, press Ctrl-S, Ctrl-S.
Monal S: Let's control less.
Monal S: Now, click on Hello World, click on the page of Hello World, in the center block.
Monal S: Hover your mouse over central block.
Monal S: Now, hover your mouse over that hello world. Click on Hello World.
Monal S: Print Hello World. Click your mouse on Print Hello World.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Oh.
Monal S: Now you're inside file, now press Ctrl S.
Monal S: Ctrl plus S.
Monal S: Can I press it? You still didn't press? No, it is not saved. I can see that white. Until you see that white circle, it means it is not saved.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Maybe command it.
Monal S: If you're in Windows, yeah, it is Command-S. Now it is done. Now run it? Yeah, it is Mac, right? Yep.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah.
Monal S: presenter, okay? It works.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Crazy. So, basically, Intelli, it is by default, it saves, but in.
Monal S: No, you can enable it. In VS Code, it is also, it is there. You can enable it in the settings, okay? Check in internet how to enable auto.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, yeah, it does opposite.
Monal S: Yeah. Okay.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Popify.
Monal S: Gotcha. Thank you.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Thank you.
Monal S: Alright.
Monal S: Then, we have Vikram Chait.
Monal S: Yes, for now, you can use Google Colab, okay? Don't invest right now and ask mentor that what is the configuration, do I even require it or not? Okay? Okay, Karamjit? Yes, sorry about that.
Vikramjeet: Can I… can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, what is the issue?
Vikramjeet: Actually.
Monal S: Guys, even before asking to share the screen, please tell me what is the issue, okay?
Monal S: others.
Vikramjeet: Yeah, actually, we want to, see this, kernel version.
Vikramjeet: the cannot.
Monal S: Right?
Vikramjeet: Jesus.
Vikramjeet: This step 5.
Monal S: Step 5.
Monal S: Please share your screen, you're already here.
Vikramjeet: Okay, okay, I've already… This turned out.
Vikramjeet: Spring?
Vikramjeet: Who's true.
Vikramjeet: Share my screen, I'm sharing my screen.
Vikramjeet: Oh my god.
Vikramjeet: Nice. Can you see my screen?
Monal S: I can see your screen, yes.
Vikramjeet: So I was doing this step, step 5.
Monal S: No, it's fine if you want to do it, but… Next.
Monal S: Next.
Monal S: What is your goal?
Monal S: See, the steps I've written, but I'm not following all the steps.
Vikramjeet: Okay, okay. So I'm getting this error, like, kernel spec environment is not recognized.
Monal S: jupyter kernel. Don't run this command for now. Jupyter you have not installed, right?
Monal S: See, not everything is useful from that. Jupyter, you have not… it's all separate. Jupyter is a tool. Right now, in the system, you don't have Jupyter, so don't run it.
Monal S: Okay.
Vikramjeet: So, step 5 will not be for us, huh? Actually.
Monal S: No, there is no…
Vikramjeet: This is this.
Monal S: See, this is Jupyter Client. Jupyter Client is different from Jupyter 2.
Monal S: Okay?
Vikramjeet: Yeah, yeah.
Monal S: Don't worry about, see, right now, you need to activate. Your environment is also not activated. Are you in the current environment?
Monal S: Where is the environment activated?
Monal S: First, activate in the terminal, then try Jupyter.
Vikramjeet: How to do that?
Monal S: I told you that I will be asking questions.
Monal S: Click on Go to VENV.
Monal S: Go to Scripts, go to Scripts, right-click on Activate, Copy relative path.
Monal S: Copy relative path.
Vikramjeet: Yes.
Monal S: Right-click on… go to Terminal, go to Terminal.
Monal S: Right-click there in Terminal, right-click there in Terminal, it will automatically paste. No, no, no, no, no.
Vikramjeet: Yes, enter.
Monal S: No, no, no, no, no.
Monal S: Did you copy it correctly? Copy… okay. Remove this. Remove this.
Monal S: paste the command of… not paste control, whatever paste command is there. Ctrl plus V, Ctrl-Shift plus V,
Monal S: You know how to pace?
Vikramjeet: I don't procurement.
Vikramjeet: This one?
Monal S: Why are you running this node.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Copy it, copy the activate.
Monal S: Okay, yeah, click on it to click… did you click on it?
Vikramjeet: This one, huh?
Vikramjeet: Nothing.
Monal S: Yeah, right-click on it, right-click on it, right-click on it.
Monal S: Click the copy related path. Click on it.
Monal S: Yeah, click on it. Now, remove everything from here.
Monal S: Thank you, thank you, Sabi, thank you very much. Now, right-click.
Vikramjeet: Press enter.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Now, can you try Jupyter kernel spec list?
Monal S: Let's see if Jupyter is installed or not. If not, don't worry about it right now.
Monal S: But is it working now?
Vikramjeet: Yeah, it's working.
Monal S: Because that Jupyter you installed, but Jupyter… you've not… you were not in the environment
Monal S: Your Jupyter is installed in the environment, right?
Vikramjeet: Yes, yes, yes. So, that's why it was not showing. They are clear.
Monal S: Yep. Okay. Yeah, you're welcome.
Monal S: Guys, please practice a lot. I'm asking everyone.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Uma?
Monal S: Omav?
Monal S: Omar, are you there?
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Rajini Pandey.
Monal S: Rajani Bandai?
uma: Hello, are you able to hear me?
Monal S: Okay, Uma, Uma, Uma, yes, I'm able to hear you.
uma: Hey, hi, so I was able to install and I was able to run, but I need to share screen once, so that, there is a confirmation from your side that I'm okay with it for the next class.
Monal S: Sure, sure, sure.
uma: So, do I need to click on the join as panel?
Monal S: Can you please share your screen? Yeah, join, join, join. Yes.
uma: Are you able to view?
Monal S: Yes, no, no, no, you don't need to share… you are in here, but you need to share in the screen.
Monal S: Your screen, she has started. Okay, I can see your screen. Can you show me?
uma: Yeah.
uma: Oh, not this one, sorry.
uma: Yeah, this is the one. It works.
uma: Yeah, it works, but, how to check that I am ready for the, my settings are okay and ready for the next class?
Monal S: It is okay.
Monal S: That's all you need to see. For now, the installation is there. Later, when Sunny will join, right, when Sunny will join, he will show you what is the project structure we will be creating, then what is the file. I just told you that
Monal S: These are the things which we are using. You understand the flow, right? UV init does it. UVSync does this. To run a file, we use uvrunpythonelvel.py, right?
Monal S: If you understand this, you're more than… for now, you're already set up.
Monal S: Okay.
uma: I have… I have one more question. So, I… actually, I was going through Krish's class, and I have.
Monal S: Oh, you have an account and a good account. Okay.
uma: And from the navigator and everything I have installed, will it conflict with UV part or whatever I'm.
Monal S: Those are different folders. Those are different folders.
uma: So I was already working on the… on the Python part, so I was getting…
Monal S: See, if you're comfortable with… if you're comfortable with anaconda, use it. If Sunisa will use UV, you can also use Conda. It is… it is totally fine.
Monal S: Our code should be able to run, that's all. The goal is not in a contrary UB, the goal is we should be able to run the code with the Python we want. That's all. Okay?
uma: Okay, okay, sure. Thank you.
Monal S: Joe, can you have a couple?
Monal S: Thank you.
Monal S: Alright, next is Rajani Pandey.
Monal S: Thanks, Kashy.
Monal S: Hey, Dustin.
Rajani Pandey: Yeah, hi, Monam. So, actually, there was some issue while installing the Python, so I googled and ChatGPT'd, and that is resolved now.
Monal S: Oh, awesome.
Rajani Pandey: But, I just want to share my screen, because the last step, I'm stuck while, you know, activating it.
Monal S: Okay, okay, I am share… yeah, I'm promoting you two panelists, please join, and then share your screen, okay?
Monal S: Amar, can… what is the question? Can you write here in the chat itself, if you want fast?
Monal S: I'm trying Omar, okay? I'm trying my best to solve everyone's query as much as possible.
Rajani Pandey: Yes, so I initialized the UV and synced it, but then later I pinned my Python, Python to.
Monal S: Later, see, that is… paint is the first command, then later sync and other things.
Rajani Pandey: Yeah, so… okay, so now if…
Rajani Pandey: I mean, will that create an issue, or…
Monal S: See, the fastest method is, because right now we are in control, delete everything, create again, UV sync will take, like, literally 1 or 2 seconds, right? Pin the Python, init, sync, done. Three commands.
Monal S: No issue. I also, I told you, right, I was telling others to change the Python version, then do UV log, UV Sync, and other things. You can follow that method if you want. Otherwise, the faster is step 1, 2, 3.
Monal S: Activate, pin, init, sync.
Rajani Pandey: Okay, so if I want to delete, I can just, delete all these folders.
Monal S: UI file, delete all the folders. Accept PY, delete all the things.
Monal S: Okay.
Rajani Pandey: Okay, except this one, right? Main people.
Monal S: I'm not able to see… you're not sharing your screen.
Rajani Pandey: Oh, okay, okay, one second, sorry, I'm so sorry.
Monal S: Sure, sure, it's fine.
Monal S: Manasvini, if you relist again, then it means you will be on last.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Cube by queue.
Monal S: We're in queue.
Rajani Pandey: Oh, I hope it's visible now.
Monal S: It is visible.
Rajani Pandey: Yes, so I just make sure that… I just need to make sure that this is not deleted, but rest all, I can.
Monal S: Yes, yes, because your PVA file is a coding file, which you are writing. Other things are just environment files, which you can always create later.
Rajani Pandey: Okay, I'll only get this, VE and VV, right?
Monal S: Yes, yes, because when you do UVSync, it will create another VEND.
Rajani Pandey: Okay. Okay. And, just, I'm using Mac, so for that, I need to activate it, right? I… I forgot that which.
Monal S: go to VENV, go to the ENV, Okay.
Rajani Pandey: Right?
Monal S: Just click on it, just click on it.
Monal S: Because it's a folder. No, no, no, just click on the VENB. Don't copy anything. Just click on the VENB.
Rajani Pandey: Okay.
Monal S: And, click on it. Now go to VIN, click on VIN.
Monal S: Now, you will see Activate, right-click on Activate.
Monal S: Right-click on Activate.
Monal S: Copy relative path.
Monal S: Now, in terminal, right, source… write source, because you're in Mac, you need to write source.
Rajani Pandey: Yes.
Monal S: Right? Source is phase that path, and it will activate, okay?
Rajani Pandey: Hmm, yeah, got it.
Monal S: Okay.
Rajani Pandey: Okay, yeah, I'm good now.
Monal S: Yeah, you're good? Alright.
Rajani Pandey: Thank you, yes, thank you.
Monal S: Alright, Aman.
Monal S: Hamar, can you try, instead of full path, can you try relative path? Amar?
Monal S: Instead of copy path, can you try, copy relative path?
Monal S: then let me know, okay? Ashish, you're next.
Monal S: So, can you just… I'm trying. Ishita.
Monal S: A native exception occurred.
Monal S: Cannot launch Cont Pi.
Monal S: What is venti?
Monal S: Can you… Ishita, can you tell me what code you're writing that is giving you this error?
Monal S: Ashish?
Monal S: I don't… I'm sharing my screen.
Monal S: scripts. You are doing copy path, can I try copy relative path?
Monal S: Instead of copy path, copy relative path, and try.
Monal S: Others…
Monal S: Why will it… why, if you write print, hello, why will it work?
Monal S: Printhello should be present in .py file, Ishita.
Monal S: Hanil, you're next.
Monal S: Shitta, print hello is a Python command, you cannot write in terminal. You should write .py file running command in terminal.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Anil?
Monal S: Whatever you guys already slept.
Monal S: Nakesh?
Monal S: Aishta, I will help you, okay? Just wait for the title.
Monal S: Nagesh?
Monal S: Anil… Anil, I can… okay.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: I am fine with it.
Monal S: Yeah. And if you're done? Alright, awesome.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: I just read it for something, but I forgot what to say.
Monal S: Okay, okay, sure. Thanks a lot.
Nagesh: I'm your.
Monal S: Excellent.
Nagesh: Can I quickly share my screen? Okay.
Monal S: Okay, what is your issue, Nagesh?
Nagesh: Yeah, I think I'm lost somewhere, like, creating folder, and by trying to install UV, it seems like it is installed. Can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, yes, yes.
Monal S: Bali Raj, 3 more.
Monal S: Three, four, or more people.
Monal S: for you.
Monal S: Okay, there are a lot of Andres, but for you, people.
Monal S: I mean, in the sequence.
Monal S: Emma, I will help you. If the hands are raised, I will help you.
Nagesh: basically is evil, right?
Monal S: Yes.
Monal S: It is loading, it is loading.
Monal S: Guys, I will not be able to tell each and every people.
Monal S: You are in PowerShell… okay.
Monal S: Can you close the VSpot and open again? Let's try that part.
Monal S: Open… close the VS Code, and do you have the folder? Do you want to open with VS Code? Have you created any folder? You want to open with VS Code?
Monal S: I guess?
Nagesh: Yeah, I think it closed, let me…
Monal S: You can share the full screen.
Monal S: It's fine.
Monal S: Because I will not tell each and every one how many before your… before your time.
Nagesh: Nothing, but, just a second.
Monal S: No, no, no, yours is fine. I'm saying, it's fine, it's fine.
Nagesh: Okay, currently.
Monal S: You can take your time, but I'm asking others, like, question mark.
Monal S: Right? Do you want to rejoin? Okay, yes, yes, yes.
Nagesh: Is it visible?
Monal S: It is loading, it is loading? Yeah, okay.
Nagesh: I don't know which screen is getting shared, so I am trying to open VES.
Monal S: Awesome.
Nagesh: Closed it.
Monal S: So, great.
Monal S: See, you don't have any folder opener as well.
Monal S: Because of the error, were you not checking the concept, or you were listening to the concept? I will ask the quiz.
Nagesh: Yeah, I was, I mean, I was looking into the concept as well, I tried to make some note, but, somewhere I… yeah.
Monal S: Open folder, click on open folder, let's try everything, because, see, this one will work, this one will also work, but this is not a good thing. Click on open folder, I told you to create a folder, and then work in that folder.
Nagesh: Yep.
Monal S: Now, is this what folder you want to work with? Work session?
Nagesh: Yes.
Monal S: Select Folder, click on select folder.
Monal S: Click on Select Folder.
Monal S: So now you can see your VS Code is open now in… What session?
Nagesh: Oh, yeah.
Monal S: This is the way you should do it, okay?
Nagesh: Yes.
Monal S: Open the terminal.
Monal S: Close this welcome and this weird thing coming on the screen.
Monal S: Welcome as well. Yeah, close this, close welcome.
Monal S: Open terminal.
Monal S: OpenTerminal, code, we can look at it later.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: right UV? Right, UV?
Monal S: Can I enter?
Monal S: It works.
Monal S: Follow the class session, okay?
Nagesh: PSS.
Monal S: Alright, so sometimes you have to restart VS Code, because
Monal S: Windows issue, sometimes we get… sometimes we get it Mac as well, but it is fixed, okay?
Nagesh: Yes, yes, thank you so much. It was a great session. Thank you so much.
Monal S: Thank you, Nicholas.
Monal S: Right?
Monal S: And then we have Anusha.
Monal S: Anusha, you're next.
Monal S: Guys, un-raise your hand if you're done. Or if your query is solved, please unraise your hand, okay? And try to solve via chat, simply Google Gemini, so your resolution will be faster. Hey, Anishal, yes?
Anushua Banerjee: Hello.
Monal S: Hello? Yes.
Anushua Banerjee: So I am, I have, I think, activated the path. After that, I just needed help with that. So, like, I need to open the, main Python file, and then write on it.
Monal S: See, installation part is done. Running a Python is something that we can do later, but okay, let me show you. Please share the screen.
Monal S: Anusha, is this the first time learning Python?
Monal S: Chad? Okay, there's only.
Anushua Banerjee: Sorry, I missed word.
Monal S: Is this the first time you're learning Python?
Anushua Banerjee: I have experience, I have done some ML work also, but yeah, I'm basically an analyst, so I don't work on it every day.
Monal S: Alright, okay. So, I will suggest you that you also have the assignment to complete the Python.
Monal S: Okay.
Anushua Banerjee: Okay.
Monal S: Little bit.
Anushua Banerjee: planning to deploy.
Monal S: So that you can get familiar, okay?
Monal S: Okay, can you share your screen?
Anushua Banerjee: Can you see my screen? Okay, no.
Monal S: No, it is not yet shared.
Anushua Banerjee: Okay.
Anushua Banerjee: Oh, I think, yeah.
Anushua Banerjee: Ocos.
Anushua Banerjee: Sorry, apparently I need to give some password.
Monal S: That's football part.
Anushua Banerjee: Can you see my screen now?
Monal S: Oh, yes, Finn't let this go.
Anushua Banerjee: Oh.
Monal S: Are you in your office director?
Anushua Banerjee: No, no, I'm using, my personal laptop only, but, for sharing screen, it is asking me to, update some, privacy requirement, and create a password, something like that, but, still, I think it's not working.
Monal S: Should be straightforward, but let's see, okay?
Monal S: Okay, you can try. In the meantime, I can… can I take someone else's query?
Anushua Banerjee: Oh, shush.
Monal S: Sure, thank you.
Monal S: Sachin, you're next.
Monal S: whereas Google Colab is very easy.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: Hey, hey, Sachin.
Sachin Rajendran: Hi, thanks, thanks for the call. Sorry, just to give you a context, I am, you know…
Anushua Banerjee: My information is not good.
Sachin Rajendran: I'm working with, you know, the terminal for the first time.
Monal S: Oh!
Sachin Rajendran: I used ChatGPT quite a lot, to actually, you know, follow through.
Sachin Rajendran: So the help that I need is actually, that, you know, I encountered a small error in terms of… can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, anusha, first, let's check with Anusha. I think she was able to share the screen. Anusha?
Anushua Banerjee: Yes.
Monal S: We were able to see the screen. You are fine with that now?
Anushua Banerjee: Yep.
Monal S: Sachin, we will take, okay, you are in the queue, okay? Don't tell me.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay, sure.
Monal S: Okay. Anusha? Yes. So, yes, I can see your environment is activated, and you are inside TestW folder as well. Okay? Now, where is your Python file?
Anushua Banerjee: The main dot bike? Yes.
Monal S: So, right now, command UV run, in the terminal, write UV run.
Monal S: This is the basic command that it should have. Now write the Python command to run the Python file.
Anushua Banerjee: Okay, so…
Monal S: main.by, right? Python main.py, python space main.py.
Monal S: This is the Python command, UV run as the UV command. Using UV, we want to run python main.vail.
Monal S: Done?
Anushua Banerjee: Okay, yes.
Monal S: Okay.
Anushua Banerjee: So, hello world, do I need to print, or…
Monal S: It's totally up to you, that is the coding part. Okay, okay.
Anushua Banerjee: So it's just opened the file, okay, got it.
Monal S: It ran the file, it executed the file.
Anushua Banerjee: Got it, got it. Thank you.
Monal S: Okay? Yeah, you're welcome.
Monal S: Alright, so guys, Bharti gave us all the instructions, so let me paste in the chat. If you guys want, you can take a screenshot. Thanks, Maharthi. And yes, Sachin, sorry for that.
Sachin Rajendran: Quickly share my screen again, right?
Monal S: Yeah, sure, let me promote you to panelist, okay? Yeah, now you will be able to share.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Guys, please try, others are also trying. In the meantime, try as much as possible. Paste your error in ChatGPT, Google Gemini, with all the things.
Monal S: It'll help you, trust me.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay, so I'm using Mac, Monolith. All right.
Monal S: Alright.
Sachin Rajendran: So, I had installed Anaconda some time back. Okay.
Monal S: Oh, you already have… I can see the base environment, okay. Yeah, so what you want to do…
Sachin Rajendran: I was trying to install, you know, follow the instruction on that document.
Monal S: Do you have UV? Is UV working?
Sachin Rajendran: one, too.
Sachin Rajendran: No, when I tried this, that, you know, I got this error that, you know, it is not, it is incompatible.
Monal S: See, why is this preventable? Because you did pin UV3.12, Okay?
Sachin Rajendran: Hmm.
Monal S: that in the request version is incompatible with the project, because you have written a different instruction in the TOML. Can you open the folder with VS Code?
Monal S: the agentic AI folder.
Sachin Rajendran: This one.
Monal S: With VS Code, because this one is harder to edit, right? You have to open each file, run it again. Can you open HNTKI with VS Code? This code doesn't.
Sachin Rajendran: How do I do that? From here.
Monal S: No, no, no, do you have VS Code open in your system?
Monal S: Do you have VSplot installed in your system?
Sachin Rajendran: Yes, this one, right?
Sachin Rajendran: VS Code.
Monal S: It hasn't.
Monal S: Last one. What is this?
Sachin Rajendran: I mean, I agree.
Monal S: install VS Code?
Monal S: Double-click on it to install it. No, no, no, this is not VS Code, this is not installed, this is just a file. Double-click on it.
Monal S: Yeah.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay, okay, okay.
Monal S: Got it!
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: Okay, so… yep.
Monal S: What do you need to do? You need to pay… you need to put VS Code into the application folder.
Monal S: Closed it.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Monal S: Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Monal S: Now, yeah, drag it to the application, and now it is getting installed in the, yes, can you see?
Sachin Rajendran: Yeah, okay.
Monal S: Now you can run VS Code. Now, once this is done.
Monal S: Search VS Code. Once this is done, search VS Code, and then you will be able to find VS Code. Now, close this, close this.
Monal S: close this VS Code DMG, you can delete this file as well, from HLTKI. This is a setup file, okay? Okay.
Monal S: Now, search VS Code.
Monal S: It is coming.
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: Now, open this Agentic AI folder from VS Code. Yeah, open. Click on Open.
Monal S: Sure enough.
Monal S: Yeah, no, no, don't click, just next section.
Monal S: Or you can close it.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: I'll close the top, you can see the cross button.
Monal S: On the top, like a tab. Yeah, close… close this as well. And also, walkthrough is also there. Close that file as well. Close the tab of the file.
Monal S: On top re- on top left, Can you see walkthrough essential?
Monal S: wash crew, and actually, I close it, okay?
Monal S: So, can you click on that top icon, top left icon? There is a file kind of icon there.
Sachin Rajendran: This one, okay.
Monal S: Click on it.
Monal S: Now, open folder, click on Open Folder.
Monal S: This is how you open folder in VS4. Now, wherever your Agent AKI folder is, navigate to that folder.
Monal S: There is Origantic AI.
Sachin Rajendran: Desktop.
Monal S: This is not your desktop, you can navigate your desktop.
Sachin Rajendran: Sorry.
Monal S: left side, yeah, double-click on it. Agent TKI on top, it is on top, it is on top. Click on it, and click Open. No, no, no, yeah, click Open.
Monal S: Oval button is there, blue button is there.
Sachin Rajendran: Open, okay.
Monal S: I've opened, okay.
Monal S: See, now you have it.
Monal S: Close.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: Yeah, allow… close this… yeah, yeah, allow this. Yes, I trust the authors. Close this walkthrough again. Yeah, close this chat.
Monal S: Close this walkthrough again.
Monal S: or tab is there, right?
Monal S: Yeah, yeah.
Monal S: Now you can see… First, I will suggest you, I think you did some Python 3.13.
Monal S: Delete everything here. Delete everything here.
Monal S: If you want, if you can.
Sachin Rajendran: Delete all these, huh?
Monal S: Yeah, because you forgot the basics. Okay? If you try to change something, you will never learn, yeah. Ctrl-A, press Ctrl-A.
Sachin Rajendran: Ctrl-A+.
Monal S: Press Ctrl-A, just CTRL-A.
Monal S: Okay. Or that command A, you have command, right?
Monal S: Press Command A.
Sachin Rajendran: Okay.
Monal S: Now I'll press the delete button.
Sachin Rajendran: Will it okay?
Sachin Rajendran: It's not blame.
Monal S: Yeah, delete is there.
Monal S: Delete.
Monal S: Yes, more for trash.
Monal S: Now, open terminal here. Do you know how to open terminal?
Monal S: No, no, here, here, here, here itself.
Monal S: Here itself.
Monal S: Hover your screen to the very top of your screen.
Monal S: then macOS will show you File and Other Options.
Monal S: Are you new to macOS?
Sachin Rajendran: Yeah, this is my daughter's, actually.
Monal S: Over to the very top, over to the very top, just over your mouse to the very top left, top left.
Sachin Rajendran: Top left.
Monal S: Top left, just over, yes, you can see file now, file left.
Sachin Rajendran: Yeah.
Monal S: Yeah, now don't do anything. There's a terminal. Can you see terminal?
Monal S: Last part, I'll show.
Sachin Rajendran: Got it, yeah.
Monal S: click New Terminal, New Terminal. Now you have everything.
Monal S: Now, do UV pin python and other commands, uvpin python 3, whatever the version you want to create.
Sachin Rajendran: Oh, I see, okay.
Monal S: See? Now, done. This is the setup. This is where you will do coding. On the left side, you will see files. On the center, you might see the code part. Okay?
Sachin Rajendran: Okay, okay.
Monal S: That's it? Yeah.
Sachin Rajendran: Thank you.
Monal S: Try to see, first, before coding, try to get familiar with the whole OS, okay? That will be more advantageous to you later, okay? How to create a file, how should I open something, where is the file, where is my route? Just try to navigate in the OS, not even in the VS Code, and then let her go into the VS Code, okay?
Sachin Rajendran: Okay, thank you. Thanks so much, Manila. Have a good one.
Monal S: Thank you. Yeah, you too. Bye-bye.
Monal S: Alright, then we have Ganesh. Ganesh Gurulu.
Monal S: Ganesh?
Monal S: Ish…
Ganesh Gurudu: Hello?
Ganesh Gurudu: Hey guys, I'm…
Monal S: Yes, you already.
Ganesh Gurudu: Hey, hi, hi Manuel, thank you so much for your time, and, nice session.
Monal S: Thank you very much.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, I have just a basic general question, not any technical one.
Monal S: Yeah, true.
Monal S: Tell me.
Ganesh Gurudu: One second,
Ganesh Gurudu: Howard would…
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, yeah, I see, the chat, which I… I've been to multiple things, actually, questions on the chat, but, none of these answered. From where you're reading these comments.
Monal S: Can you pay something now? Can you paste something now? In the Zoom chat, in the Zoom chat. Can you write hi?
Ganesh Gurudu: I did multiple times, but nothing is answered, so I thought.
Monal S: See, nothing will be answered, I told you, right? No, no, no. See, you're doing right. But I will tell you the frequency at which I'm getting message. Every second, I'm getting 5-6 message.
Monal S: What is the probability that I will see your message?
Monal S: Okay? So whatever message I'm able to see.
Ganesh Gurudu: But, yeah, I was… keep on asking, but… okay.
Monal S: No, see, still.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, no problem.
Monal S: In the same time, if other people are asking, I can only see one, right? Okay?
Monal S: It will happen with sunny as well, okay? Okay. So, because we have a lot of volume coming.
Ganesh Gurudu: So, the.
Monal S: The best thing is, if something does not get answered in the chat, the last option is, the last and the best option is, raise hand and stay till the end, okay? This is where at least I can guarantee that your questions will be answered, okay?
Ganesh Gurudu: Got it, Manal, thanks. And my question is, like, the UV, right? The UV one which we are installing. This is optional, right? I mean, this is mandatory for the school?
Monal S: If you… either you should have Conda or UV. You should be familiar with both of… either one of them. If you're not familiar, then…
Ganesh Gurudu: Hmm.
Monal S: Yeah.
Ganesh Gurudu: I'm, familiar with Conda, but this UV is for maintaining the versions, right, for multiple projects.
Monal S: Contact can also… no, Kanta can also do it.
Ganesh Gurudu: But this is an option, right, for… oh, okay. This is optional.
Monal S: But you need to be familiar with Python and Conda, such that if Sunny Sear in the next class is going to create virtual environments with UV, you should not be
Monal S: You know that if Sunny's creating virtual environments, you will create the same with Conda.
Ganesh Gurudu: Beautiful.
Monal S: You just need to use Python, so you should be familiar with that pattern. Otherwise, you will get confused with what Sunil is doing and what you are doing. If you want to be on the.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay.
Monal S: then install UV. And if you're confident that I will be able to handle my environments, then don't install UV. So you need to check by yourself.
Ganesh Gurudu: I mean, I have… I'm a SRE, Science Liberty Engineer, but.
Monal S: Oh.
Ganesh Gurudu: Developer… development background, actually.
Monal S: Alright.
Ganesh Gurudu: So, I have a little background on this Python and all programming.
Ganesh Gurudu: And…
Monal S: If you're fine with that, that is totally fine, okay? Okay.
Ganesh Gurudu: And my other question is, like, as you… today's session was great, but can we also get, like, a short notes, like.
Ganesh Gurudu: what is what, and all. Is it, is it possible, or how it will be, like.
Monal S: This is what I call…
Ganesh Gurudu: Things, okay.
Monal S: See, what will also happen. You will also get a transcript file. What my batch student does, Ultimate Data Science People does, you will also get a recording transcript file. What they do, they copy the whole thing, paste to ChatGPT, and then get the final summary.
Ganesh Gurudu: second.
Ganesh Gurudu: That is weird.
Monal S: domestic.
Ganesh Gurudu: speed, yeah, that can generate, kind of, but, my, thing, like, that you have created graphs and charts and everything that will visualize, right, more.
Monal S: You will get that PDF.
Monal S: Whatever I did, right, I will be shared.
Monal S: this whole section. The same PDF, whatever I'm writing, it will be there. Always.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, okay, for the entire course, for all of whatever we do, I'm in.
Monal S: Yes, whatever we are writing, whatever we are sharing, it will always be present in the resource section. Everything. Each and every file. Okay?
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, but not specifically as a short no… short third.
Monal S: No, no, it's his shot.
Ganesh Gurudu: I know what I'm saying.
Monal S: A short note is something that if we create short notes of 4 hours, try to convey, for mentors, mentors are already preparing it. They prepare it in the language that they understand, and to create notes from it might take 2 more hours.
Monal S: Okay?
Ganesh Gurudu: Right, right, but in the future, like, it's a 6-month course, right?
Monal S: So many things.
Monal S: STO.
Ganesh Gurudu: So…
Monal S: I will suggest to you this, say, my student also asked this, but I will tell you one thing.
Monal S: To prepare for interview.
Monal S: You can never rely on these notes. How can you create, notes like a book, and then… will you be able to recall it faster, like your notes for the interview? Your notes for interviews should be machine learning in 4 pages, deep learning in 2 pages, generative AI in 5 pages, 5 pages, that's all.
Monal S: But if I.
Ganesh Gurudu: Yeah, yeah, that's okay.
Ganesh Gurudu: Very high-level… high-level headlines, like, what is what, like.
Monal S: Definition, you will see…
Ganesh Gurudu: Your definition's kind of.
Monal S: Definition? Definition, no one cares about. You will not even read it.
Ganesh Gurudu: Oh, yeah.
Monal S: I can guarantee you, you will not even go to the definitions. If I ask you.
Ganesh Gurudu: If you want, definitely.
Monal S: definitions, what you will do, just write something. Don't even write a definition. You should understand the concept of each one does. If I ask you in interview, would you be able to say definition line by line?
Ganesh Gurudu: not in terms of definition, but I want, like, why and where we can use. Suppose something, if you have so many concepts we have, so where we can use this concept, and why we use this concept, and what it.
Monal S: Technically provided by the mentor. Okay, see, I think if mentor will talk about transformer, mentor will talk about the concepts and other things. In the practical, he might show you that this is the problem's use case, and then this is what we do.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay.
Monal S: So, that depends on…
Ganesh Gurudu: I didn't know, yeah.
Monal S: Okay, so you can check that.
Ganesh Gurudu: Okay, no, no problem. Thanks, thanks, Sevenant. It was a good session. Thanks, yeah.
Monal S: Thank you, guys. Bye-bye.
Monal S: Alright, and depending on.
Monal S: Kali Raj. Kaliraj, you're next.
Monal S: Yes, correct, Solvik.
Monal S: I need to restart, thank you. Sure, Ishita. Yeah. Hey, Kalpersh. How are you?
kaliraj p: Hi, Munish, thanks for your class, it was very nice. And, I want to ask some few questions. Monish, I set up everything.
kaliraj p: So first question is, like, I studied Python, but, I don't know how to practice it. Is there any practice kind of document, like,
Monal S: Let's see…
kaliraj p: when I'm…
Monal S: Create projects. Project is the ultimate thing you can practice.
Monal S: Give yourself a problem statement, and start creating it. Use ChatGPT, Javanai, whatever you want. But modularity, designing things is something that we can only learn by creating projects.
Monal S: what do you want to practice? If you go on HackerRank, Hacker Earth, you will learn all of this competitive programming, but competitive programming is not equal to development.
Monal S: Are we clear?
Monal S: Give yourself a problem statement, or ask ChatGPT that I am in this stage, I'm in basic stage, I don't have confidence in Python, but I want to practice. So give me 5 simple projects which I can create. Pick one, and start solving.
Monal S: Okay?
kaliraj p: Okay.
kaliraj p: Example, for example, whatever it is, just click on.
Monal S: No, this is what I'm suggesting. See, you can create… do you know… okay, when did you learn Python? How much time does it?
kaliraj p: It took, 20 days, like.
Monal S: Now, how much time it has been, how much years you learned Python 2020, you learned Python.
kaliraj p: No, no, this year, last month only.
Monal S: Oh, last one, Thundy, okay? You know all the concepts of oops.
kaliraj p: Yeah, I studied, yes.
Monal S: You only started? Practiced anything? No.
kaliraj p: Wow.
Monal S: So, why not create your own student management? Start with student management, student… or book management? These are, like, very simple. Start with book management in a CSV file, so you will be using file system, you will be taking input from the user, giving options. Why not start there?
Monal S: Okay.
kaliraj p: Okay, sure.
Monal S: Right?
kaliraj p: I got it, yeah.
Monal S: Python?
Monal S: See, I am personally teaching Python, and in the next week, I am teaching project, but it is in Ultimate Data Science, okay? That project is very big, it will take, like, 6-7 hours. But that is only a Python project, so you have to start somewhere. Give yourself a very small product statement, and then start solving it.
Monal S: think of it as, like, I want to create… I want to store user input into a CSV file. Create a program for that. I want to get data from CSV file in Python. Write a program for that.
Monal S: Are you getting my point?
kaliraj p: Yes, sir.
Monal S: Okay, sure. Yeah, thank you.
kaliraj p: And one more thing, yeah.
Monal S: Yeah, sure. Yes, yes, tell me that.
kaliraj p: Yeah, I have a few questions. And, is there any class with the maximum 10 to 20 add-ins?
kaliraj p: What? Like, maximum audience, like, 10 to 20 members.
Monal S: No, no congrats, no.
kaliraj p: Not the happiest, okay.
Monal S: Now, I know you are asking for one-to-one, right? The better.
kaliraj p: No, not, like, one-to-one, like, 20, 30 pupils means, like, it will be easier.
Monal S: See, maybe you can… Trisha, we're asking for the US thing, right?
Monal S: Okay?
Monal S: So, maybe when that comes, you can check it, but for now, we don't have those 20 ones, okay?
kaliraj p: Okay, sure. And one more thing, for prerequisites, you have provided many, things for ML and, deep learning also, how to learn, right? So, for that, like, is that enough to watch the videos else,
Monal S: Yeah, that is enough. See, Krishna has provided all the prerequisites, right? It is in your dashboard.
Monal S: So, start watching those, and then you will be able to complete it. You don't have to watch all. Krisha has provided generative AI also. You don't have to watch generative AI, because that is the course itself. But if you have time, if you want to go through it, go through it.
Monal S: It's totally up to you, but watch at least few classes of what is machine learning, what is statistics. Only few. Statistics was not a prerequisite, but
Monal S: Machine learning and few things, okay?
Monal S: I'll take the pictures.
kaliraj p: But I don't want to do, like, hands-on projects like that, that requirement, that level requirement not needed.
Monal S: Which one? You want to do handsome project?
kaliraj p: No, no, I'm asking, like, do I need to do some projects in ML and deep learning? That is what… No.
Monal S: No, no, just understand the concepts. You don't require projects, okay? Only understanding of concepts is required, okay?
kaliraj p: Okay, sure. And one more, kind request, like, if you are providing, like, where we are in the queue, like, when we are, hands-on.
kaliraj p: Okay. So… Like, if…
Monal S: See, all of these details, all of these details, when Sunny, sir, is going to join the class, right? You guys, you all can, check what, you all can tell Sunny, sir, that what exactly you guys require, okay? Because I will not be maintaining any part of this course. I maintain the Ultimate Data Sense Batch 2. There, I have all my main
Monal S: where we are, and etc. But you need to tell your mentor that what exactly you want. This is only setup class, right? Okay?
kaliraj p: Okay.
Monal S: Sure. Yeah. Yeah.
kaliraj p: Thank you.
Monal S: Yeah, thank you, Patrons.
Monal S: Alright… Then we have Amarnath.
Monal S: Amarnad?
amar nath: Can you hear?
Monal S: Yes, I can hear you, Bernard. Yes.
amar nath: Sorry about it, you know. By the way, I am a 25… I author of Genie A Books also, okay?
Monal S: Oh, but awesome!
amar nath: strategy.
amar nath: So, the one question I have… can I share my screen, first off?
Monal S: Yes.
Monal S: I'm promoting you to panelists.
amar nath: Join as a panelist.
amar nath: Okay.
amar nath: I'm sharing it. I'm playing around with AgentK also, 2.8 and everything, so my question to you, simple question is.
amar nath: This one… are you seeing my screen?
Monal S: Yes, I can see your screen.
amar nath: So, first question is, I installed successfully Jupyter Notebook, and then I'm not saying why this error is coming? You say…
Monal S: Can you use relative path instead of full path?
amar nath: Yeah, where do I go? It's a Mac. Where do I go for that? .
Monal S: No, right-click on… right click, right, go to BNB, right-click on Activate, right-click on Activate.
amar nath: Activate, okay.
Monal S: Right-click, right click, right click.
amar nath: Okay.
Monal S: You can see relative path.
Monal S: Relative, copy relative path.
amar nath: Okay.
Monal S: Now, in terminal, write source, and then the relative path.
amar nath: Source…
Monal S: Interminal, in terminal.
amar nath: Yes, sir.
Monal S: Paste it, paste it.
Monal S: Whatever you copied, pasted.
Monal S: Presenter, done.
Monal S: Is it giving any error?
amar nath: No, one second, let me open it. First question to my… my question is not this, actually.
amar nath: Yeah, still the same, still is the same error.
amar nath: Not at.
Monal S: Where is that error? No,
Monal S: No, but where are you getting error now?
amar nath: No, this is not an argument.
Monal S: No, we just ran it, it was working, right?
Monal S: It was in which town?
Monal S: It is in which tab? We just ran it, it was working.
amar nath: No, no, no, wait, wait a second. But when you open a new terminal, you should not open it, right? The CSRK should be executed, right?
Monal S: I don't.
amar nath: But you don't see that.
amar nath: Okay. Okay, I'll show you one thing. I clear it is.
amar nath: I go here, Copy, right-click, copy relative path, right?
Monal S: Yes.
amar nath: And then I say source, copy, source.
amar nath: I did this, Command-V, look good?
Monal S: Yes, yes.
amar nath: Again, we open a terminal, why it is showing error.
Monal S: Where is the time?
amar nath: terminal, if we open a new terminal.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: By default, it is executing some command. But you can see, you can clear the screen. See, by default, it gives you that error, but are you able to see… no, no, no. If you clear the screen, are you able to see any error now?
amar nath: No.
Monal S: It is already activated.
Monal S: So, that is a by default command, something is running inside it, you need to check what is running, but it is already activated, you're getting no error. No error.
amar nath: exercise.
Monal S: Okay, yeah.
amar nath: Okay, that's not a problem. My first question is… my question… my question is not this one. My question is, I'll show you one. Let me… give me a second.
amar nath: By the way, I'm going for a senior-level leadership. At the same time, I'm down to hands-on for this, so that's the reason I'm doing this. January, is it possible you guys do the interview preparation also?
amar nath: We do…
Monal S: interview preparation, but Menta will be doing it at the end, yep. Okay.
amar nath: Okay, I'm a senior guy, 25 plus in the industry. I'm in the US.
Monal S: See, if Krishna has mentioned about intricate prevention, then we will do it. But you can check with a mentor, okay? You can check.
amar nath: The first question is, okay, I don't know, let me do this, I'm ready to finish my question. The question is here. I finished, see, I successfully installed the Jupyter network, what you call kernel.
amar nath: Okay.
amar nath: If you see, but I'm not able to… it says… are you seeing my screen? Step 6.
amar nath: VS Code and multi-.
Monal S: No, I cannot, I cannot see your screen. Actually, I'm only about to see VSCO.
amar nath: No, no, no. What I'm saying… No, no, my question to you is, in the documentation, open your IP env file. Why do I say IPN by file? I don't see that here.
Monal S: Because you have not created it.
amar nath: No, that's what I meant.
Monal S: that we are not supposed to create any file inside VENV. Can you first close VENV?
Monal S: I will tell you, I will help you. Can you first close VNV? Yes.
Monal S: Now, click on plus button, click on plus file button.
Monal S: There is one plus 5 button. Yeah.
Monal S: see, it is creating inside VENV, because your VENV is selected. Will you be able to drag this file out?
Monal S: No, first click anywhere in this cell. Okay, click on main.py. Click on main.py. Yeah, yeah, now click on plus. Now click on plus file.
Monal S: Yeah, now write A.IPYNB, whatever you want to name it as. A.IPYNB.
amar nath: No, no, not here. Okay, hold on, the objective here is to have a Jupyter kernel installed on my VS Code.
Monal S: First, can you, can you, can you plus create that file?
amar nath: Okay. A dot? Why do you…
Monal S: IPY, A.IPYNB file.
Monal S: I, PY, and BY.
Monal S: And we press enter.
Monal S: Can you click on select kernel? Can you click on select kernel on the right side?
amar nath: Where is it?
Monal S: On the very right side, top right.
amar nath: Okay.
Monal S: Click on Python Environments. Python, Python Environments.
Monal S: Click on Test Dummy, click on Test Dummy.
Monal S: Now, in the code, write some code, click on, click on Clode Code.
Monal S: There is plus code in the file. Plus code…
Monal S: Now, right, print, print Hello World or something.
amar nath: Okay, okay, got it.
Monal S: Run it, Ctrl-Shift, Enter, or Shift plus Enter, yeah, run it. It is working.
amar nath: Now, this is working. I installed OpenAI also. Okay, sorry if I'm going beyond the course of this course. I installed OpenAI, I was playing around with OpenAI, let me show you this.
amar nath: Open reason… I do Wall Street content also, but I just don't know, one second. OpenAI, where is OpenAI?
amar nath: One second. If somebody's waiting, you can go, probably, I'll talk. Is there a way I can send an email to somebody on a specific company?
Monal S: See, for any queries, because I will not be handling this batch, okay? For any queries, you can check with Sunny, and you will only be able to understand how to communicate with Sunny when Sunny comes back, okay? Or you can share the information of your queries in the community of this particular batch. You have community chat, right?
Monal S: If you don't want to share something private, then probably check with Sunny's LinkedIn, okay?
amar nath: Okay, so…
Monal S: LinkedIn, you will be able to find in the syllabus, alright? Sure.
amar nath: One second, one last thing I want to ask you before we go.
Monal S: Sure, sure, yes?
amar nath: Oh, it's okay, no.
amar nath: I'll share this, because if I have to reach out to you, this is my LinkedIn, okay?
amar nath: One second. So, if I have to reach you on anything on…
amar nath: One second, give me a 60 seconds, because the iPhone… Sure, sure.
amar nath: Bye, so it'll be… We can work it together, because…
amar nath: I'm in between the projects, so I thought, you know, this will help me in a big way.
amar nath: Multi-agents also, do you have the code, existing code already?
amar nath: Anything I can pass?
Monal S: I, I, I don't have, I don't have… see, for multi-agents, we do have a separate project things which you can check, okay? Do you know about our projects offering? There, it's all about project. It's all just about projects.
amar nath: This is me. I was… okay, this is me. I want to connect with you.
amar nath: Okay.
Monal S: Okay.
amar nath: You can look at… okay, you can look at me. I'm returning the conference also? Is that useful? Sure.
amar nath: Okay,
amar nath: Yeah, how do I send a request? I send a request, I think I follow you now, you can send a request.
Monal S: Sure, sure. Yes, all right, all right, sure, sure, Amar. Yes. All right. Yeah. Thank you very much, Amar.
amar nath: Thank you.
Monal S: Thank you, thank you.
Monal S: Alright, and then we have Vijay.
Monal S: Panigaj, you will see in the resource section under video, once the video is uploaded. Hey, hey, Vijay, yes?
Vijay Choudhari: Thanks a lot for a very good session. Actually, I was, programming background, but very new to Python.
Vijay Choudhari: Just, I want to show you one thing.
Vijay Choudhari: The good thing is I have to deliver a lot of honey.
Monal S: I think he's shifting to anabist.
Vijay Choudhari: So that would also result.
Monal S: Sorry, we were not able to hear you because you were shifting to panelists, yeah.
Vijay Choudhari: Actually, actually, I was able to, during this, query, clearing session, I was able to find out the.
Monal S: Awesome.
Vijay Choudhari: my problem. Initially, I was facing an issue for UV, EV was not recognized, so I was able to find, after setting the path.
Monal S: That pathway, even.
Vijay Choudhari: So I was not able to see the output, hello, what output.
Vijay Choudhari: But one of the… one of the queries was there, or hello and was not… Was not saved. Yeah, that was not saved, so I tried that, and it started working.
Monal S: Awesome, awesome rejo.
Vijay Choudhari: Other than that, I just want to show you something. Let me share my screen.
Monal S: Yeah, sure, yes, sure.
Vijay Choudhari: I want to understand, can we use the VS Code for big projects, or is there.
Monal S: Yes, we use VS Code for big projects.
Vijay Choudhari: No.
Monal S: We actually use VS for projects.
Monal S: We use Pre-Zip for production, yep.
Vijay Choudhari: Okay, and also, this, I just have a doubt. There are two, one is PowerShell Terminal, and the other one is CMD.
Monal S: Yes.
Vijay Choudhari: So, whether PowerShell is only used for the setup, the folder setup, and…
Monal S: PowerShell is Windows native, by default, you can say, terminal, okay? But PowerShell uses different commands, but that commands is not directly transferable to CMD.
Monal S: Okay? So both are a little different, but PowerShell, using PowerShell, you can install a few things. Using CMT also, you can install a few things, but PowerShell has a different command.
Monal S: So whatever you want to install with PowerShell is a different command, other than CMD, okay? But CMD, you will find it very close to how you will get in Linux. Little bit, okay? Linux-like, little bit.
Monal S: It's always just CMD.
Vijay Choudhari: Does it mean that we can use alternately PowerShell and CMD, or there are some…
Monal S: Use… if you want to install something or set up some variables on the operating system, use PowerShell, if not working in CMD. Otherwise, always use CMD.
Monal S: Always your CMT.
Vijay Choudhari: Welcome.
Vijay Choudhari: Okay, and just want to show you, earlier I was not saving my workplace, but later I saved it with this name, and it's time showing something here. I'm not sure whether it is.
Monal S: What is this?
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, I'm not sure. There was an untitled, workspace.
Monal S: And see, I told you that the folder that you are working in, you should open that using VS Code.
Monal S: You have right now two different levels of folder. You have Python code, and inside Python code, you have another Python code, right?
Vijay Choudhari: Yes, yes, yes.
Monal S: So open the inner Python code where you have all the files using VS Code, okay? That is a better way. Otherwise, sometimes this UV will create issue.
Vijay Choudhari: Okay.
Monal S: Okay.
Vijay Choudhari: I can see.
Monal S: Later, you can open the folder, right? Yeah.
Vijay Choudhari: Yep.
Vijay Choudhari: Maybe I can…
Monal S: folder, No, no, click on Open Folder, click on Open Folder.
Vijay Choudhari: Welcome.
Monal S: And open it again.
Monal S: Yeah, select… just select folder.
Monal S: Alright, this is the best story.
Vijay Choudhari: But this one is still…
Monal S: West and Cleaner. Yeah, delete it. Delete it if you're not sure. Delete this.
Monal S: Deleted.
Monal S: Try to worry, you can always create files.
Monal S: Okay.
Vijay Choudhari: Let me just…
Monal S: Yeah, now let's… yes, great. Now let's run it.
Monal S: Good.
Monal S: Command prompt?
Monal S: Activate the environment first.
Monal S: Others, guys, if you have the same query, please, try to do this, yeah. No, not UV activate.
Monal S: Komar, Vijay?
Vijay Choudhari: No, no.
Monal S: Go to VNV, click on VENV, click on VENV folder.
Monal S: Good that you have this PDF.
Monal S: No, no, not here, not here. I have written all the commands I did in the PDF.
Vijay Choudhari: I mean, this…
Monal S: sequence.
Monal S: No, no, no, in the PDF, in my handwritten notes, in my handwritten notes.
Vijay Choudhari: I determined so quickly.
Monal S: See, you did UV pin?
Vijay Choudhari: Yes.
Monal S: Yes, now scroll below, go by your way upside. You did a UV in it.
Vijay Choudhari: Really booking.
Monal S: You did UV in it? Yes, you did, that's why you have Project.taml. You already have it.
Monal S: See, I think you're a little confused, okay?
Monal S: Now, scroll a little bit below, scroll, scroll down.
Monal S: Don't even go to the notes, okay? I will tell you. You can watch the lectures again. Go to this, click on .VENV folder.
Monal S: Click on .VENV folder. Brave, it is provided, that's why he has to have it. Click on Scripts.
Monal S: Click on Scripts.
Monal S: Right-click on Activate. Inside scripts, right-click on Activate.
Monal S: Copy relative path.
Monal S: You were not looking at the screen when I was teaching you?
Monal S: Not paste it here.
Monal S: Click, first click, right click.
Monal S: It will automatically get… no, no, no, first click on the terminal. You already copied it, right?
Vijay Choudhari: We are confident, yeah.
Monal S: Click here, click on the black part, yes. Right-click, right click here. No, just right-click. It will automatically paste. See this? Press Enter.
Monal S: Now it is activated. Now run UV run.
Monal S: Python a.py.
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, thanks.
Monal S: Ben?
Vijay Choudhari: Okay, thank you, Nila, thanks a lot. Yeah, sure, Visit.
Monal S: Practice it a bit, it's fine, okay?
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, thank you.
Monal S: Yeah, sure.
Vijay Choudhari: sensitive word.
Monal S: Alright, Ema, you're next.
Monal S: Guys, the files are still sending, so let's wait, okay?
Monal S: For some reason, this whole thing got hanged.
Monal S: Emma, are you there? Guys, I've shared the file again in the community, okay?
Monal S: Neha, you're next. Okay, Ema, you're first.
Hema: In my day is a lot of noise coming in.
Hema: Beautiful, beautiful.
Monal S: Neya, go first. Hema, there is a lot of noise coming from your side.
Monal S: Neha? Yes.
Neha: Yeah, hi Monal, thank you for the help-in. So, I have a question that, you know, I have, in another class at the same time, like a hobby class, and that's why, and that's.
Monal S: See, you will get recordings. For a hobby, you cannot pause recordings, but if you have time, you can always pause this recording the next class. Whenever you have doubt, think of it as, like, for Sunday's… if you… for Sunday's class recording, if you have doubt, you will be asking in the Saturday next week.
Monal S: Okay.
Neha: Yeah.
Monal S: And also in the community, Community people will help you, okay?
Neha: Okay, so, like, a follow-up question. So, like, for Saturday, by when the recording will be uploaded so that.
Monal S: Maximum is 24 hours, but our team… well, see, we are dependent on Zoom's recording.
Monal S: once the Zoom processes this whole video, then as soon as possible, we try to upload that video in 6 hours, 5 hours, 7 hours. But the maximum we are seeing is that
Monal S: 24 hours, okay? It always gets uploaded before 24 hours. So it's like Saturday class you will be watching on Sunday, right?
Monal S: So.
Neha: Oh, okay.
Monal S: I think today.
Neha: So, just, I want to share my screen, Monol, and, you can just tell me if, watching the recordings can help it, like, I…
Neha: Can I share my screen?
Monal S: Yes, yes, sometimes yield, that's cool.
Monal S: Rakesh team will be providing you if it is processing else. I will ask them to create from the next class. Okay, Rakesh?
Monal S: or as an insert it, please enable it.
Monal S: Yeah, guys, every batch will take some time, so you need to tell your mentors what exactly you require. Mentor will tell what we can do. I'm telling you video transcript can be done, but other things, you should also communicate, okay?
Monal S: Earning up.
Neha: Yeah.
Monal S: I guess, maybe?
Neha: Can you see my screen?
Monal S: I can see your screen.
Neha: Yeah.
Neha: No?
Monal S: Yes.
Neha: Yeah. So,
Neha: I followed the steps, like, Monol, I missed the class in between, so right now, like, when I'm going at the virtual environment step, it's giving this.
Monal S: You are in PowerShell. The first thing I'm saying is that, don't work in PowerShell.
Monal S: CMD, so you already have CMD open. Now, here, write the same command, activate one.
Neha: Yeah.
Monal S: to VENV, or you don't even have VENV, so what do you need to do, right? UV sync. No, no, no, you don't even have VENV in your system. You have not created. So, do UV Sync.
Monal S: Where exactly you are, just wait.
Monal S: No, no, no, go to VS Code only. Let me see your code. Thank you, Rakesh.
Monal S: Let me see, where is your VENB?
Monal S: Can you open PiProjector Toml?
Monal S: Can you open it?
Neha: Taho, to open that?
Monal S: just click on it, just click on it, on the VSC.
Neha: slot is… yeah, okay.
Monal S: 3.12, dependencies… You are inside a test folder.
Monal S: And, let's weird. Something is weird.
Monal S: Can you expand your file explorer area? It is too small. Can you expand it?
Monal S: So it is test me. No, see, you're in a different folder. Tell me why.
Monal S: Why your folder name is Full Test.
Neha: Nice.
Monal S: Capital test me, but this one is small.
Monal S: You are not inside the correct file. Can you open this folder exactly? Just test me? Can you try? I'm not sure, let's open it.
Monal S: No, no, no, open folder.
Monal S: Where was this file?
Monal S: Okay, let me check if it is in my system? Oh, no, no, it shows you in capita Mountain. Okay, yeah, yeah, click on this. It is correct. Oh, see!
Monal S: Yeah, yeah, click on this Test Me.
Monal S: Let's select folder.
Monal S: It is the same thing.
Monal S: Because when you're doing UV sync.
Monal S: Actually, the VENV folder I was able to see before.
Monal S: Okay, so I think you did a double init. Now, can you do UV init here again? Okay, first, can you delete every file here except a.ipenby and main.py?
Monal S: And hello world as well.
Neha: Yeah, sure.
Monal S: Yeah, except, accept, okay, accept UI files, you can delete, okay, it's fine, you can create a new one. Delete everything now. Delete everything now.
Neha: Okay, these files are.
Monal S: Code if she fell.
Monal S: No, delete Python version, and delete README.
Monal S: Delete Python version and read me. It's fine. Delete those two, and then read me.
Monal S: Now let's start again. What is the command that we need to use here?
Monal S: First command, UV python pin, whatever version you want to use.
Monal S: UV, Python, pin, then the version of Python you want to use.
Monal S: Yes.
Monal S: Now, do UV in it.
Monal S: This will create project files.
Monal S: Yes, now to UV Sync.
Monal S: For some reason, your sync is not working, because… this is weird, okay? Can you open your file explorer? Can you open your file explorer, where you have this test me file?
Monal S: No, no, not here, not here. Form your file, from your Windows File Explorer.
Monal S: Open this, test me, show me.
Monal S: Yep.
Monal S: See, go inside that.
Monal S: See, there is .VEN, we are able to see .VENV?
Neha: Yes, yes.
Monal S: Create it, delete this. And why are you working inside users? This is not a good place, but okay.
Monal S: This is not a good place.
Monal S: You also have Python version and everything, you'll be somehow picking it.
Monal S: Because you did, I think, init from here first, right?
Neha: Yes, yes, right.
Monal S: Right? So, can you create a new folder in… anywhere, guys? See, you are…
Monal S: Neha. Neha, don't try to work in users. Users and these are the configuration of your system, and your files. So, create a different folder, can you create a different folder anywhere where you not have users and others?
Monal S: Okay, yes, it's better.
Monal S: Oh, you directly have Windows C like this.
Neha: Yeah.
Monal S: Just write maybe data science so that you can always work, or just write a work folder.
Monal S: Okay? Just try to work.
Monal S: Okay, press enter, double… go inside this folder.
Monal S: Now, here, create, maybe, modern data science. I'm just asking you to structure things, alright?
Neha: Yep.
Monal S: Yep.
Monal S: Just write modern, and then open this folder with VS Code, that's all. Can you open this folder with VS Code now?
Neha: Yeah.
Monal S: No, no, go to VS Code, and click on File, Open Folder, you remember that?
Monal S: Yeah.
Monal S: And later, delete all the things from there. Yeah, click and open.
Monal S: Just select folder, yes.
Monal S: Now, here, let's do all the steps. Can we do uvpin Python?
Monal S: UV in it, UV sync?
Monal S: So if something gets messed up, then we need to create all of this. Yes, no.
Monal S: I think you clicked, yeah.
Monal S: Yurib, I didn't been…
Monal S: Emma, can you reply in the chat? Were you able to fix your audio issue?
Monal S: No, no, no, no. UV init. Without in it, how will sync will work.
Monal S: Sync required files. Now do UV sync.
Monal S: Clear?
Neha: Yeah, yes, yes, no.
Monal S: So, it was because you did something there, and you'll be speaking from that particular location. So, maybe try to delete all the things from the user folder, okay?
Neha: Yes.
Monal S: This one will work, this one will work, okay?
Neha: Okay, and you have just shared the step-by-step document in the community chat, right?
Monal S: Yes, yes, yes. See, that is not step-by-step, that is a documentation of UV itself. If you want step-by-step, you remember that in the handwritten notes, I am doing step-by-step?
Monal S: Okay?
Neha: Yeah, Mona, can you share the handwritten notes, how.
Monal S: It is there in the zip, it is there in the zip.
Monal S: In the community, I shared the zip, right?
Neha: Okay, in the community.
Monal S: community.
Neha: today.
Neha: Yep.
Neha: Here in the messages?
Monal S: Yes, see my latest message?
Monal S: Refresh this if you want, or…
Neha: Oh, yeah, yeah, okay.
Monal S: Yeah.
Monal S: If you download it, everything is present. I was also writing the code of Windows and other things in a TXT file, right? It is also there in this zip, okay?
Neha: Okay, thank you so much.
Monal S: Sure, yes, sure, sure, Neil.
Monal S: Alright, thank you. And then, Hema. Hema, let's see, can you please try to unmute?
Monal S: Try speaking something?
Monal S: Emma?
Monal S: If it gets weird, then I will not be able to help you, because I will not be able to hear you.
Monal S: Devo?
Monal S: I was able to resolve all the errors by hearing other stops, by hidden views, by… that's great! Awesome, Nirval. Thank you very much, Nirval. Have a nice day.
Monal S: Guys, it is already Monday here.
Monal S: Okay, Ema, I think there is some issue. Ema, if you want to screen share, but if you don't speak anything, how will I understand?
Monal S: Emma?
Monal S: And Hemar, try to think, see others, unauthorized access, Bala, Bharti, Navinta.
Monal S: Ravi, guys, did you try everything which others are saying? Because I'm repeating the same thing every time.
Monal S: I'm not doing any new step, I'm repeating the same thing.
Monal S: Were… was it able to solve your query? Others…
Monal S: Was it able to solve your query? Did you try it?
Monal S: Emma, if… can you check your microphone or something? Because… Not sure.
Monal S: Okay? But in the meantime, I will take someone else's coil. Emma?
Monal S: Please check your microphone first. Unauthorized access?
Monal S: The name is Unauthorized Excellence.
Monal S: Are you there? Unauthorized access, are you there?
Monal S: Okay. Baila, you're next.
Monal S: Paola?
Bala Rajendran: Yep.
Bala Rajendran: Hi, Mona.
Monal S: Hello.
Bala Rajendran: Thank you for all the time.
Bala Rajendran: share my screen.
Monal S: Share… just wait, let me give you that access.
Monal S: What is your query?
Bala Rajendran: Yeah, query is, I've been,
Bala Rajendran: join as a panelist, is that what I should do, or…
Monal S: Yes, yes, join as a panelist.
Monal S: Others, Bharti, Navinta, Amold, did you guys tried everyone's resolution?
Monal S: to try Chad's JPT and everything.
Bala Rajendran: I just, did the same thing. I went and then created a new folder here.
Bala Rajendran: Yes.
Monal S: Share your screen, Bala.
Bala Rajendran: Share? Okay, also.
Bala Rajendran: Hello.
Monal S: Yes, yes, you're… you're audible.
Monal S: Share your screen.
Bala Rajendran: Is my screen visible?
Monal S: It is loading? Yes, it is visible.
Monal S: Yes, did you restart your VS Code?
Bala Rajendran: Yes, I did.
Monal S: What is the error you're getting?
Bala Rajendran: See, I just, first of all, like,
Bala Rajendran: I'm just trying to follow these steps, right?
Monal S: It is good, but first, do you have a UV installed in your system?
Bala Rajendran: Yes, I have UV.
Monal S: Okay, you have UV, but are you in… okay, you are inside this folder as well? Can you first… can you open CMD? Can you open CMD?
Monal S: Not in PowerShell.
Monal S: Can you do UV pin Python? UVPython pin?
Monal S: Give your Python pin, whatever the version you have installed in your… from the UV,
Monal S: I think so it is working. Now do UV init.
Monal S: No, no, don't look at the command. I have the command in my mind. You be in it.
Monal S: Is it working?
Monal S: Can you do UV sync? Bala, you were trying, but as I mentioned… no, UV, S, Y, and C.
Monal S: SY… no, no, not S, Y, and C.
Monal S: It is working, Bala. Everything is working.
Monal S: Not April.
Bala Rajendran: One last question, sorry. Sure, sure, sure. This,
Bala Rajendran: Where is this old… so this is… UV is also taking care of Python, or it is…
Monal S: UV is also… no, UV also takes care of Python. UV is a tool.
Monal S: Go to AppData, go to AppData, go to AppData.
Monal S: Go to roaming.
Monal S: Go to, let's say UV.
Monal S: Go to UV.
Monal S: Go to Python.
Bala Rajendran: It's done. Okay.
Monal S: You can see?
Monal S: See, this is UV roaming data, this is roaming, but you will… in app data, you can find local. Go to app data.
Monal S: Why you want to search for, but first of all, for UV?
Monal S: Go to AppData. No, AppData does not exist. Just click on AppData, just click on AppData.
Monal S: Go to local.
Monal S: Now, search for… you can see U visas, third one. Third, third, top, top.
Monal S: Yep.
Monal S: Okay, this one has… is having cache, okay? Similarly, you will find different, different files of UV, let me check, UV installed directly.
Bala Rajendran: So, basically, UV… Bytra is under UV, probing.
Monal S: Python is under UV, but Python will have its own folder, okay? It is actually in roaming, then Python, then scripts.
Monal S: In App Data, you have roaming. Go to App Data.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Python?
Monal S: No, no, no, go to AppData, Rooming, then Python.
Monal S: Let's not go to UV first.
Monal S: Then scripts. Go to Python. Do you have Python here?
Bala Rajendran: Python is not there, but… Okay.
Monal S: If you want to see how UV is working, can you open, in your Windows Search, Edit Environment Variables?
Bala Rajendran: Huh.
Bala Rajendran: Alright.
Monal S: Now, here… Cancel this? Cancel this.
Monal S: Now click, you can see User Variables. Click on Path of User Variables.
Monal S: Here, this is… you can see this is UV.
Monal S: It is in packages, yeah, it is the UV… no, it is the UV folder directory. You can copy this. Copy the whole thing.
Bala Rajendran: Yeah, I'm recopied, it's already here.
Monal S: It is.
Monal S: Okay, can you see? It is inside AppData Local Microsoft.
Monal S: Paste it.
Monal S: You can navigate, okay, Bala?
Monal S: everything you will be able to find. Microsoft, then you will have Astral.
Monal S: Look for the folder, Vincent. Vincent. Vinat, VinGet is there.
Monal S: Look for Vincate.
Monal S: Go to… Yeah, packages… yeah, here you have your VIN.
Bala Rajendran: So, this is where the actual… Okay, using…
Monal S: where your uve.exe is, okay?
Bala Rajendran: But actually, Python is, not direct, it is inside the.
Monal S: UV installed Pythons, the Python will be in a different folder. UV maintains Python, okay?
Bala Rajendran: Thank you, thank you so much.
Monal S: Sure, sure, Malam, you're welcome.
Monal S: Okay, Hema, can we try again? Hema?
Monal S: Hey, Mom?
Monal S: May you still have access to unmute yourself?
Monal S: Unauthorized access, are you there?
Monal S: Final time I'm asking, I'll cyber skip.
Monal S: Authorized access? Okay.
Monal S: No reply.
Monal S: Hey, Mom.
Monal S: Reply.
Monal S: Party?
Monal S: Because I want to help you, but I need things to help you. You should have some system.
Monal S: Hey. Yes. Hey, Marty. Yes.
Bharti: Hey, yeah, my name is Dashi, actually. This is somebody that…
Monal S: Sure, practice.
Bharti: So, I've been able to, install everything, run my Hello World program, but I have some other questions. What is the… if I… currently, I'm, with the Python version 3.12,
Bharti: If I need to switch it back to 3.8, because that's the basic objective that you should be able to switch between different versions.
Monal S: Yes.
Bharti: Do I… do I need to…
Monal S: It results in different projects.
Bharti: Okay.
Monal S: Not in a same project. The objective is never to switch in a different project. It means you don't know the objective of the project itself.
Monal S: Objective from UV is you're working in Project A, this is a folder where you have VENV. You will create another folder, each project gets a different folder, sorry, I don't… Ashish. So, each folder… each project gets a different folder.
Monal S: We write code inside that folder. We don't merge two different projects in the same folder, okay? So if you want to work with another project, you will do what? UVPython pin, whatever the version you want, then start working on that.
Bharti: Okay, okay, got it, got it.
Monal S: We don't switch Python in the same project. We first define the requirements that I want to work with Python 3.12, 3.8, and I also told you, right, and I also showed with other people that if you want to change the Python, we need to change in log, pipe project tomorrow in Python version, run the UV log, run UVSync, and all of that. You can also change it.
Monal S: But that is not recommended, because you should be clear at the start whether you want to work with 3.8, 3.12, 3.10, 3.6, alright?
Bharti: That I got. Thanks so much for clarifying.
Monal S: Yeah, that's…
Bharti: And as an expectation for today, do we need to set up Jupyter as well?
Monal S: See, I think Jupyter, I've not, taught you yet, but because we were out of time, but Jupyter, if you can set up it, is better, but I will ask, Sunny to install Jupyter for all of you as well, okay?
Bharti: Okay, perfect, right.
Monal S: Thank you.
Bharti: Thank you so much for the clarification.
Monal S: Thank you, Padu. Thank you. I'm sorry, Ashes.
Bharti: Aisha. Thank you.
Monal S: Alright, and…
Monal S: Navanita? Sorry if I'm not pronouncing your name correctly. You can pronounce it so that I can remember.
Monal S: Anita?
Monal S: Amanita, are you there?
Monal S: All right. Amul?
Monal S: I'm old.
amoljamkar: Hello sir, am I audible?
Monal S: Yes, I'm audio.
amoljamkar: Actually, I had one question, the, which I installed everything, UV, everything is installed. One question is that, the Hello World Python file should be created in the main directory, or should it be created in.
Monal S: In the main directory. In the main directory. In the main directory, nothing should go inside .venv. Nothing.
amoljamkar: Okay, okay, because when I was creating in the scripts, and I was not able to run it, but when I create it in the main directory, I am able to.
Monal S: No, a script is a folder for the virtual environment itself, okay?
amoljamkar: Okay, okay, okay, fine. So, so I'm good, I mean, so that.
Monal S: Alright, sure, sure.
amoljamkar: Okay, thank you.
Monal S: Okay. Pravi, P-R-A-V-E, Pravi? Are you there?
Monal S: Rami, are you there?
Monal S: Hema? Do you hear me? Hey, Pravik. Yes, I can hear you.
Prave: Yeah, I think, there's a confusion. I think what the folder you have shared, it has A.
Prave: pi file instead of a.txt. I think where you were capturing the… writing the notes.
Monal S: Did I send the wrong one? Just wait. Oh, okay, what I will do now, in the community, I will share that file again. Is that fine?
Prave: Yeah, perfect, thank you.
Monal S: Yeah, thank you, thank you for reminding me. Other people have not said it, but this is good.
Monal S: Uv, we require this, we require this, and then we require the nodes that I created.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Just reading.
Monal S: 2, 3, and 4 files.
Monal S: Three facts.
Monal S: And I'm sharing a file again.
Monal S: And this one is the correct one.
Monal S: Let me see if I can delete.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Emma, can you please raise your hand?
Monal S: Navanita, I'm not able to… okay, warning, Navnita, can you please unmute yourself?
Navaneetha: Hello? Are you able to hear… am I able to hear?
Monal S: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Navaneetha: Thank you, sir. Let me share my screen.
Monal S: Okay, converting you to panelists.
Navaneetha: Thank you, Seth.
Monal S: Yeah, you're talking.
Monal S: Somic, you can also name. UV, when you create environment, UVVENV.
Monal S: You can name the environment as well.
Monal S: But VENV is supposed to have just VENV, because we are going to use it, but Conda is powerful in global environments, right? As you know.
Navaneetha: Sir, are you able to hear…
Monal S: Yes, yes, yes.
Navaneetha: Are you able to see my screen, sir?
Monal S: No, no, not yet. You know, to share it.
Navaneetha: I'm not able to…
Monal S: Ravi, can you confirm if this file is correct or not?
Prave: Yeah, I do see, but I think you captured some PIN commands, and other stuff was also there.
Monal S: It is there. You can… in a.txt, if you see, UV… see, UVPython, pin, and other things, I did it in Notebook, but only few commands I did it here.
Prave: Okay, alright.
Monal S: Okay? The few commands were there in the notebook. Okay?
Prave: Okay.
Monal S: Sure. Thanks, thanks, Totik. Yes, I can see your screen.
Navaneetha: Sir, how do I… I'm able to get this working, sir, but how do I get rid of this message, sir? What am I missing with respect to this.
Monal S: Virtual environment is… this test environment does not match with… okay, because there is some issue with your project involvement, fine.
Monal S: Your… did you change your file name?
Monal S: Need to change your project name?
Navaneetha: Yes, yes.
Monal S: That's fine. Can you read the warning? Can you tell me? Your virtual environment, the first line is saying that it is T… your environment is variable is saying that you have T colon slash Python project slash test A slash VENV. It is saying that it does not match with the project environment path, that is T projects ENV.
Monal S: You don't have this folder, because you changed it.
Navaneetha: Correct. So, how do I… I change from my Python projects to projects.
Monal S: That's why I told you, don't change anything. First, decide everything, then it starts creating VEMV. So first, I will tell you to delete everything, and then start writing once you define where you want to work, okay?
Navaneetha: Okay. Okay.
Monal S: Are you clear? You will be able to do it easily, and don't.
Navaneetha: Yeah, but two things.
Monal S: folders. Only the folder where you want to work should be open. See, here you have projects, you also have test tab.
Monal S: Only open tester.
Monal S: Okay?
Navaneetha: focus.
Monal S: Only open the last depth, the final depth of a particular project.
Navaneetha: Focusing.
Monal S: Yep.
Monal S: table to market.
Navaneetha: Thank you, Sue.
Monal S: Thank you, thank you.
Monal S: Alright. Hema, last?
Monal S: Emma, let's try.
Monal S: Yeah, I can see… I can hear some click. Can you speak?
Monal S: Or does it micrick?
Monal S: Emma… You have to let me help you.
Monal S: How can I help you, Hema?
Monal S: I'll let everybody.
Monal S: Okay, guys, Hema is the last one, I will not take anyone's quail, it is already late, okay? And I… this… Hema was the last person, others are done. So we are finally able to complete everyone's doubt, and guys, trust me, in Prismac Academy, every mentor will do the same.
Monal S: Whatever doubts you will have, if you are not able to solve in the chat section, please raise hand, and then we will solve each and every query, even if it takes 6 hours, 7 hours, okay? So this is what we always follow, but it's not like when I say last person is done, then you guys start raising hand. That is not fair.
Monal S: Raise hand, it will complete things one by one. Is everyone clear? Yes? So guys, I will probably see you
Monal S: I'm not sure when I'm going to see you, okay? Yeah, you will have Sunny Seth with you. But yes, good teaching you guys, had a great experience, with you, alright? And thank you for your
Monal S: Compliments. Thank you, guys. Emma, I'm sorry, I want to help you, but I'm not able to help you. I'm not able to hear you.
Monal S: So, sorry for that. Okay, thanks for understanding. Hema!
Monal S: If you're not speaking, I have to write each and everything from my mouth.
Monal S: Okay, Emma, I am promoting you to panelist. Emma, please do it fast.
Monal S: But Hema, this is not fair.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: If you want to ask something, you should be able to speak something.
Monal S: Emma, can you quickly share screen?
Monal S: Others, guys, you can drop off, okay? Class is done. Guys, you can drop off. Thank you for joining, okay?
Monal S: Thank you, guys.
Monal S: Emma, can you share your screen?
Monal S: Are you able to share the screen?
Monal S: It's fine. Emma, if your microphone is not working, I can give you some other things, but you need to share this screen.
Monal S: Yeah, we can't hear her.
Monal S: Yes, open VS Code, and Hema,
Monal S: What is this code which you are writing, Hema? Can you do Vinjet… Hema? Can you do Vinjet install UV?
Monal S: Vinted.
Monal S: The blue, you know the spreading.
Monal S: No, no, no, Hema.
Monal S: Install UV.
Monal S: Small, small, small.
Monal S: And it's, like…
Monal S: That's weird.
Monal S: Amy, it is working.
Monal S: What were you trying from Passover?
Monal S: Hema, after this, will you be able to work? Do you know the other steps?
Monal S: You can open a notepad and then write. Emma, you can open a notepad, and if you want to write something, you can write, okay?
Monal S: It's fine.
Monal S: I know you got frustrated that things are not working, and then…
Monal S: You got lost, you lost track of the class.
Monal S: But that is the same thing I told you to not do it.
Monal S: Class is more important than our errors.
Monal S: This one is not working as well.
Monal S: When Jet installed UV will also not work, HMA. Let's see.
Monal S: That's it.
Monal S: Okay.
Monal S: Because you wrote capital UV,
Monal S: Write UV, a small UV, write a small UV in terminal, don't do anything, just write a small UV. No, no, don't delete anything.
Monal S: Click, click there.
Monal S: Let's, reopen right here now.
Monal S: Hema, close the VS Code first.
Monal S: Those would be useful.
Monal S: Maybe your VS port is not loading right now, it would work.
Monal S: Open the…
Monal S: Upon the VS Code again.
Monal S: And this time, don't write that capital UV.
Monal S: Small also tried, but what was the error? I need to see the error. Okay, see this.
Monal S: Try this one, Hemo. In the chat, see this in the chat?
Monal S: I'm writing something, write the same thing. Okay?
Monal S: Don't worry, we will fix that system.
Monal S: stone.uv.
Monal S: Right, the same thing.
Monal S: Copy it, paste it in the terminal in the PowerShell.
Monal S: But why other people are able to see you guys query?
Monal S: That I need to check with the… actually, not him.
Monal S: Yeah, open PowerShell.
Monal S: That's in the translator.
Monal S: Okay, in the meantime here, while this is installing.
Monal S: Is your system latest, or it is getting old?
Monal S: I can see that, no packages found matching, right?
Monal S: Can you now do Winter install, that UV command which I told you?
Monal S: I want to see the error. I want to see that error.
Monal S: Winter, install, UV.
Monal S: Small.
Monal S: Well, in your case, it is just… wait, wait, wait, wait. I got it. Can you see that it is a different ID? It is astral hyphen SH.
Monal S: dot UV.
Monal S: See, in the chat again, see the chat?
Monal S: The latest chat.
Monal S: Run this command now.
Monal S: paste it.
Monal S: It's fine, let's, keep the OS open, that we don't… Yep.
Monal S: So, now it's working.
Monal S: Yes?
Monal S: Not sure which version of… I think you were in Windows… it's fine, okay? I think you will be able to… this will work, and also your system is getting slow. Can you click… do you know how to click on Task Manager?
Monal S: Also, it is showing you to restart your shell once it is done. You can see it is installed.
Monal S: Or what you can do, you can close the VS Code and open again. Later, do it. Do it later. Can you open your task manager? Let me see if this is your system creating issue. No, no, no, no, not like this.
Monal S: Okay, okay, open it.
Monal S: Click on Task Manager.
Monal S: Okay, let's wait.
Monal S: If your disk space is working, not working, it means you need the SSD. Let's see.
Monal S: Your memory is short. That's why your system is not working. Can you click on performance?
Monal S: Can you click on performance?
Monal S: Let's see… you are utilizing 60% of here, but you are using all the RAM.
Monal S: Can you click on process now again? Can you click on process now?
Monal S: Because the system is getting slow, because of this RAM.
Monal S: And you can see how much RAM you have? Can you show it? Oh, you have only 4GB of RAM, that's why, right? Are you using laptop?
Monal S: Are you using laptop?
Monal S: System? See, if you have system, you can always… Vasim, I'm not seeing right now, but if you want,
Monal S: if you want the best out of this class, if you want to run Zoom, all of the softwares, I will suggest you to have minimum of 8GB RAM, okay? You can… you can… because you already have a system, you can bring 4GB, or you can bring your system to RAM, desktop to them. They will install one 4GB chip into the system, only if you want.
Monal S: Only if you want, okay? Only if you have that. Then your system will work. But right now, 4GB, I think it is already getting filled. That's why it is hanging a lot.
Monal S: Okay? But maybe trying to run a few classes, if you think that there is a problem, then you know the solution. Okay, Hema?
Monal S: All right, sure. Thank you, Emma, thank you.
Monal S: Yes, you're welcome, you're welcome. Alright, so guys, it's not just Python, okay? Good night, guys, good night. See you guys.
Monal S: most probably in LinkedIn, okay, or sometimes in this class as well. See you guys, bye-bye. Good night.